T<i>Monday evening.</i>
                  AT my repeated request she condescended to meet me in the dining-room to afternoon tea, and not before.
                  She entered with bashfulness, as I thought; in a pretty confusion, for having carried her apprehensions too far. Sullen and slow moved she towards the teatable.—Dorcas present, busy in tea cup preparations. I took her reluctant hand, and pressed it to my lips.—Dearest, loveliest of creatures, why this distance? Why this displeasure?—How can you thus torture the faithfullest heart in the world?—She disengaged her hand. Again I would have snatch'd it.
                  Be quiet, peevishly withdrawing it; and down she sat; a gentle palpitation in the beauty of beauties indicating mingled sullenness and resentment; her snowy handkerchief rising and falling, and a sweet flush overspreading her charming cheeks.
                       For God's sake, Madam!—And a third time I would have taken her repulsing hand.
                  And for the same sake, Sir; no more teazing.
                  Dorcas retired; I drew my chair nearer hers, and with the most respectful tenderness took her hand; and told her, that I could not, without the utmost concern, forbear to express my apprehensions (from the distance she was so desirous to keep me at), that if any man in the world was more <i>indifferent</i> to her, to use no harsher a word, than another, it was the unhappy wretch before her.
                  She looked steadily upon me for a moment, and with her other hand, not withdrawing that I held, pulled her handkerchief out of her pocket; and by a twinkling motion, tried to dissipate a tear or two, which stood ready in each eye, to meander themselves a passage down her glowing cheeks; but answered me only with a sigh, and an averted face.
                  I urged her to speak; to look up at me; to bless me with an eye more favourable.
                  I had reason, she told me, for my complaint of her indifference. She saw nothing in my mind that was generous. I was not a man to be obliged or favoured. My strange behaviour to her since Saturday night, for no cause at all that she knew of, convinced her of this. Whatever hopes she had conceived of me, were utterly dissipated: All my ways were disgustful to her.
                  This cut me to the heart. The guilty, I believe, in every case, less patiently bear the detecting truth, than the innocent do the degrading falshood.
                  I bespoke her patience, while I took the liberty to account for this change, on my part.—I re-acknowleged the pride of my heart, which could not bear the thought of that want of preference in the heart of a lady, whom I hoped to call mine, which she had always manifested. Marriage, I said, was a state that
was not to be entered upon with indifference on either side.
                  It is insolence, interrupted she, it is presumption, Sir, to expect tokens of value, without resolving to <i>deserve</i> them. You have no whining creature before you, Mr. Lovelace, overcome by weak motives, to love where there is no merit. Miss Howe can tell you, Sir, that I never loved the <i>faults</i> of my friend; nor ever wished her to love me for mine. It was a rule with us, not to spare each other. And would a man who has nothing but faults (for pray, Sir, what are your virtues?) expect that I should shew a value for him? Indeed, if I did, I should not deserve even <i>his</i> value, but ought to be despised by him.
                  Well have you, Madam, kept up to this noble manner of thinking. You are in no danger of being despised for any marks of tenderness or favour shewn to the man before you. You have been perhaps, <i>you'll</i> think, <i>laudably</i> studious of making and taking occasions to declare, that it was far from being owing to your choice, that you had any thoughts of me. My whole soul, Madam, in all its errors, in all its wishes, in all its views, had been laid open and naked before you, had I been encouraged by such a share in your confidence and esteem, as would have secured me against your apprehended worst constructions of what I should from time to time have revealed to you, and consulted you upon. For never was there a franker heart; nor a man so ready to accuse himself. [This, Belford, is true]. But you know, Madam, how much otherwise it has been between us.—Doubt, distance, reserve, on your part, begat doubt, fear, awe, on mine.—How little confidence! as if we apprehended each other to be a plotter rather than a lover. How have I dreaded every letter that has been brought you from Wilson's!—And with reason; since the last,
from which I expected so much, on account of th proposals I had made you in writing, has, if I may judge by the effects, and by your denial of seeing me yesterday (tho' you could go abroad, and in a <i>chai
                     </i> too, to avoid my attendance on you), set you against me more than ever.
                  I was guilty, it seems, of going to church, said the indignant charmer; and without the company of a man, whose choice it would not have been to go, had I not gone. I was guilty of desiring to have the whole Sunday to myself, after I had obliged you, against my will, at a play; and after you had detained me, equally to my dislike, to a very late hour over night.—These were my faults: For these I was to be punished; I was to be compelled to see you, and to be terrified when I did see you, by the most shocking ill-humour that was ever shewn to a creature in my circumstances, and not bound to bear it. You have pretended to find free fault with my father's temper, Mr. Lovelace: But the worst that he ever shewed <i>after</i> marriage, was not in the least to be compared to what you have shewn twenty times <i>beforehand.</i>—And what are my prospects with you, at the very best?—My indignation rises against you, Mr. Lovelace, while I speak to you, when I recollect the many instances, equally ungenerous and unpolite, of your behaviour to one whom you have brought into distress—And I can hardly bear you in my sight.
                  She turned from me, standing up; and lifting up her folded hands and charming eyes, swimming in tears—O my dear papa, said the inimitable creature, you might have spared your heavy curse, had you known how I have been punished, ever since my swerving feet led me out of your garden-doors to meet this man! Then, sinking into her chair, a burst of passionate tears forced their way down her glowing cheeks.
                       What have I done to deserve this impatient exclamation?—Have I, at any time, by word, by deeds, by looks, given you cause to doubt my honour, my reverence, my <i>adoration,</i> I may call it, of your virtues?—All is owing to misapprehension, I hope, on both sides.—Condescend to clear up but your part, as I will mine, and all must speedily be happy.—Would to heaven I loved that heaven as I love you! And yet, if I doubted a return in love, let me perish if I should know how to wish you mine!—Give me hope, dearest creature, give me but hope, that I am your preferable choice!—Give me but hope, that you hate me not; that you do not despise me.
                  O Mr. Lovelace, we have been long enough together, to be tired of each others humours and ways; ways and humours so different, that perhaps you ought to dislike <i>me,</i> as much as I do <i>you.</i>—I think, I think, that I cannot make an answerable return to the value you profess for me. My temper is utterly ruined. You have given me an ill opinion of all mankind; of yourself in particular: And withal so bad a one of myself, that I shall never be able to look up, having utterly and for ever lost all that self-complacency, and conscious pride, which are so necessary to carry a woman through this life with tolerable satisfaction to herself.
                  She paused. I was silent. By my soul, thought I, this sweet creature will at last undo me!
                  She proceeded.—What now remains, but that you pronounce me free of all obligation to you? And that you will not hinder me from pursuing the destiny that shall be allotted me?
                       Again she paused. I was still silent; meditating whether to renounce all further designs upon her; whether I had not received sufficient evidence of a virtue, and of a greatness of soul, that could not be questioned, or impeached.
                  She went on: Propitious to me be your silence, Mr. Lovelace!—Tell me, that I am free of all obligation to you. You know, I never made <i>you</i> promises.—You know, that you are not under any to <i>me.</i>—My broken fortunes I matter not.—
                  She was proceeding.—My dearest life, said I, I have been all this time, tho' you fill me with doubts of your favour, busy in the nuptial preparations.—I am actually in treaty for equipage.
                     <i>Equipage,</i> Sir!—Trappings, Tinsel!—What is Equipage; what is Life; what is Any-thing, to a creature sunk so low, as I am in my own opinion!—Labouring under a father's curse!—Unable to look backward without reproach, or forward without terror!—These reflections strengthen'd by every cross accident!—And what but cross accidents befal me!—All my darling schemes dashed in pieces; all my hopes at an end; deny me not the liberty to refuge myself in some obscure corner, where neither the enemies you have made me, nor the few friends you have left me, may ever hear of the supposed rash one, till those happy moments are at hand, which shall expiate for all!
                  I had not a word to say for myself. Such a war in my mind had I never known. Gratitude, and admiration of the excellent creature before me, combating with villainous habit, with resolutions so premeditately made, and with views so much gloried in!—An hundred new contrivances in my head, and in my heart, that, to be honest, as it is called; must all be given up, by a heart delighting in intrigue and difficulty—Miss Howe's virulences endeavoured to be recollected—Yet recollection refusing to bring them forward with the requisite efficacy—I had certainly
been a lost man, had not Dorcas come seasonably in, with a letter.—On the superscription written—<i>Be pleased, Sir, to open it now.</i>
                  I returned to the window—opened it.—It was from herself.—These the contents—
"Be pleased to detain my lady; a paper of importance to transcribe.—I will cough when I have done."
                  I put the paper in my pocket, and turned to my charmer, less disconcerted, as she, by that time, had also a little recovered herself.—One favour, dearest creature—Let me but know, whether Miss Howe approves or disapproves of my proposals?—I know her to be my enemy. I was intending to account to you for the change of behaviour you accused me of at the beginning of this conversation; but was diverted from it by your vehemence.—Indeed, my beloved creature, you was <i>very</i> vehement.—Do you think, it must not be matter of high regret to me, to find my wishes so often delayed and postponed, in favour of your predominant view to a reconciliation with relations, who will not be reconciled to you?—To this was owing your declining to celebrate before we came to town, tho' you were so atrociously treated by your sister, and your whole family; and tho' so ardently pressed to celebrate by me? To this was owing the ready offence you took at my four friends; and at the unavailing attempt I made to see a dropt letter, little imagining that there could be room for mortal displeasure on that account, from what two such ladies could write to each other.—To this was owing the week's distance you held me at, till you knew the issue of another application.—But when they had rejected that; when you had sent my coldly-received proposals to Miss Howe for her approbation or advice, as indeed I advised, and had honoured me with your company at the play on Saturday night (my whole behaviour unobjectible to the last hour); must not, Madam, the sudden change in your conduct, the very
next morning, astonish and distress me?—And this persisted in with still stronger declarations, after you had received the impatiently-expected letter from Miss Howe; must I not conclude, that all was owing to her influence; and that some other application or project was meditating, that made it necessary to keep me again at distance till the result were known, and which was to deprive me of you for ever? for was not that your constantly proposed preliminary?—Well, Madam, might I be wrought up to a half-frenzy by this apprehension; and well might I charge you with hating me.—And now, dearest creature, let me know, I once more ask you, what is Miss Howe's opinion of my proposals?
                  Were I disposed to debate with you, Mr. Lovelace, I could very easily answer your fine harangue. But at present, I shall only say, that your ways have been very unaccountable. You seem to me, if your meanings were always just, to have taken great pains to embarass them. Whether owing in you to the want of a clear head, or a sound heart, I cannot determine; but it is to the want of one of them, I verily think, that I am to ascribe the greatest part of your strange conduct.
                  Curse upon the heart of the little devil, said I, who instigates you to think so hardly of the faithfullest heart in the world!
                  How dare you, Sir?—And there she stopt; having almost overshot herself; as I designed she should.
                  How dare I <i>what,</i> Madam? And I looked with meaning. How dare I <i>what?</i>
                  Vile man!—And do you—And there again she stopt.
                  Do I <i>what,</i> Madam?—And why <i>vile man?</i>
                  How dare you to curse <i>any-body</i> in my presence?
                  O the sweet receder!—But that was not to go off so with a Lovelace.
                       Why then, dearest creature, is there <i>any-body</i> that instigates you?—If there be, again I curse them, be they who they will.
                  She was in a charming pretty passion.—And this was the first time that I had the odds in my favour.
                  Well, Madam, it is just as I thought. And now I know how to account for a temper, that I hope is not <i>natural</i> to you.
                  Artful wretch! And is it thus you would entrap me?—But know, Sir, that I receive letters from nobody but Miss Howe. Miss Howe likes some of your ways as little as I do; for I have set every-thing before her.—Yet she is thus far <i>your</i> enemy, as she is <i>mine:</i>—She thinks I should not refuse your offers; but endeavour to make the best of my lot. And now you have the truth. Would to heaven you were capable of dealing with equal sincerity!
                  I <i>am,</i> Madam. And here, on my knee, I renew my vows, and my supplication, that you will make me yours—Yours for ever.—And let me have cause to bless you and Miss Howe in the same breath.
                  To say the truth, Belford, I had before begun to think, that that vixen of a girl, who certainly likes not Hickman, was in love with <i>me.</i>
                  Rise, Sir, from your too-ready knees; and mock me not.
                     <i>Too-ready knees,</i> thought I!—Tho' this humble posture so little affects this proud beauty, she knows not how much I have obtained of others of her sex, nor how often I have been forgiven the last attempts, by kneeling.
                     <i>Mock you,</i> Madam!—And I arose, and re-urged her for the day. I blamed myself at the same time, for my invitation to Lord M. as it might subject me to delay, from his infirmities: But told her, that I would write to him to excuse me, if she had no objection; or to give him the day she would give me, and not wait for him, if he could not come in time.
                       My day, Sir, said she, is never. Be not surprized? A person of politeness judging between us, would not be surprized that I say so. But indeed, Mr. Lovelace, and wept thro' impatience, you either know not how to treat with a mind of the least degree of delicacy, notwithstanding your birth and education, or you are an ingrateful man; and (after a pause) a worse than ingrateful one. But I will retire. I will see you again to-morrow. I cannot before. I think I hate you—You may look—Indeed I think I hate you. And if, upon a re-examination of my own heart, I find I do, I would not for the world that matters should go on farther between us.
                  I was too much vex'd, disconcerted, mortify'd, to hinder her retiring—And yet she had not gone, if Dorcas had not cough'd.
                  The wench came in, as soon as her lady had retired, and gave me the copy she had taken. And what should it be of, but the answer the truly admirable creature had intended to give to my written proposals in relation to settlements?
                  I have but just dipt into this affecting paper. Were I to read it attentively, not a wink should I sleep this night. To-morrow it shall obtain my serious consideration.