                        Sunday Afternoon.
                  I Am in great apprehensions. Yet cannot help repeating my humble thanks to your mamma, and you, for your last favour. I hope her kind end is answer'd by the contents of my last. Yet I must not think it enough to acknowlege her goodness to me, with a pencil only, on the cover of a letter sealed up. A few lines give me leave to write with
regard to my anonymous letter to Lady Drayton—If I did not at that time tell you, as I believe I did, that my excellent Mrs. Norton gave me her assistance in that letter; I now acknowlege that she did.
                  Pray let your mamma know this, for two reasons: One, that I may not be thought to arrogate to myself a discretion which does not belong to me; the other, that I may not suffer by the severe, but just inference she was pleased to draw; <i>doubling</i> my faults upon me, if I myself should act unworthy of the advice I was supposed to give.
                  Before I come to what most nearly affects me, I must chide you, once more, for the severe, the very severe things, you mention of our family, to the disparagement of their morals, as I may say: Indeed, my dear, I wonder at you!—A slighter occasion might have passed me, after I have written to you so often to so little purpose, on this topic. But, affecting as my own circumstances are, I cannot, without a breach of duty, let slip the reflection I need not repeat in words.
                  There is not a worthier person in England than my mamma. Nor is my papa that man you sometimes make him. Excepting in one point, I know not any family which lives up more to their duty, than the principals of ours. A little too <i>uncommunicative</i> for their great circumstances—that is all.—Why, then, have they not reason to insist upon unexceptionable morals in a man whose relationship to them, by a marriage in their family, they have certainly a right to allow of, or disapprove?
                  Another line or two, before I am ingross'd by my own concerns:—Upon your treatment of Mr. Hickman.—Is it, do you think, generous, to revenge upon an innocent person, the displeasure you receive from another quarter, where I doubt you are a trespasser too?—But one thing I can tell him; and you had not best provoke me to it; That no woman uses
a man ill whom she does not absolutely reject, but she has it in her heart to make him amends, when her tyranny has had its run, and he has completed the measure of his services and patience. But my mind is not enough at ease, to push this matter further.
                  I will now give you the occasion of my present apprehensions.
                  I had reason to fear, as I mention'd in mine of this morning, that a storm was brewing. Mr. Solmes came home this afternoon, from church, with my brother. Soon after, Betty brought me up a letter, without saying from whom. It was in a cover, and directed by a hand I never saw before; as if it was supposed, I would not have received and open'd it, had I known it came from him. These are the contents.
                           I have no manner of doubt, that this is a poor device, to get this man into my company. I would have sent down a verbal answer; but Betty refused to carry any message, which should prohibit his visiting me. So I was obliged either to see him, or to write to him. I wrote, therefore, an answer, of which I shall send you the rough draught. And now my heart akes for what may follow from it; for I hear a great hurry below.