                        Monday night.
                  THIS moment the following letter is brought me by Betty.
                  I was vexed to the heart at this: And immediately, in the warmth of resentment, wrote the inclosed to my uncle Harlowe; who, it seems, stays here this night.
Betty scrupled again to carry this letter; and said, she should have anger; and I should but have it returned in scraps and bits.
                  I must take That chance, I said: I only desired she would deliver it as directed.
                  Sad doings! very sad! she said, that young Ladies should so violently set themselves against their duty!
                  I told her, she should have the liberty to say what she pleased, so she would but be my messenger that one time—And down she went with it.
                  I bid her, if she could, slide it into my uncle's hand, unseen; at least, unseen by my brother or sister, for fear it should meet, thro' <i>their</i> good offices, with the fate she had bespoken for it.
                  She would not undertake for That, she said.
                  I am now in expectation of the result. But having so little ground to hope for either favour or mercy, I opened Mr. Lovelace's letter.
                  I would send it to you, my dear (as well as those I shall inclose, by this conveyance; but not being able at present to determine in what manner I shall answer it, I will give myself the trouble of abstracting it here, while I am waiting for what may offer from the letter just gone down.
                     "He laments, as usual, my ill opinion of him, and readiness to believe every thing to his disadvantage. He puts into plain English, as I supposed he would, my hint, that I might be happier, if, by any rashness he might be guilty of to Solmes, he should come to an untimely end himself."
                       He is concerned, he says,
"That the violence he had expressed on his extreme apprehensiveness of losing me, should have made him guilty of any thing I had so much reason to resent."
                  He owns,
"That he is passionate: All good-natured men, he says, are so, and a sincere man cannot hide it."
But appeals to me,
"Whether, if any occasion in the world could excuse the rashness of his expressions, it would not be his present dreadful situation, thro' my indifference, and the malice of his enemies."
                  He says,
"He has more reason than ever, from the contents of my last, to apprehend, that I shall be prevailed upon by force, if not by fair means, to fall in with my brother's measures; and sees but too plainly, that I am preparing him to expect it."
                     "Upon this presumption, he supplicates, with the utmost earnestness, that I will not give way to the malice of his enemies."
                     "Solemn vows of reformation, and everlasting truth and obligingness, he makes; all in the style of desponding humility; yet calls it a cruel turn upon him, to impute his protestations to a consciousness of the necessity there is for making them from his bad character."
                     "He despises himself, he solemnly protests, for his past follies: Thanks God he has seen his error; and nothing but my more particular instructions, are wanting to perfect his reformation."
                     "He promises, that he will do every thing that I shall think he can do with honour, to bring about a reconciliation with my father; and will even, if I insist upon it, make the first overture to my brother, and treat him as his own brother, because he is mine, if he will not, by new affronts, revive the remembrance of the past."
                     "He begs, in the most earnest and humble manner, for one half-hour's interview; undertaking by
a key, which he owns he has to the garden-door, leading into the <i>Coppice,</i> as we call it (if I will but unbolt the door) to come into the garden at night, and wait till I have an opportunity to come to him, that he may re-assure me of the truth of all he writes, and of the affection, and, if needful, protection, of all his family."
                     "He presumes not, he says, to write by way of menace to me; but, if I refuse him this favour, he knows not (so desperate have some strokes in my letter made him) what his despair may make him do."
                  He asks me,
"Determined, as my friends are, and far as they have already gone, and declare they will go, what I can propose to do, to avoid having Mr. Solmes, if I am carried to my uncle Antony's; unless I resolve to accept of the protection he has offered to procure me; or except I will escape to London, or elsewhere, while I <i>can</i> escape?"
                  He advises me,
"To sue to <i>your</i> mamma, for her private reception of me; only till I can obtain possession of my own estate, and procure my friends to be reconciled to me; which he is sure they will be desirous to <i>be,</i> the moment I am out of their power."
                  He apprises me [It is still my wonder, how he comes by his intelligence!],
"That my friends have written to my cousin Morden, to represent matters to him in their own partial way; nor doubt they to influence him on their side of the question."
                     "That all this shews I have but <i>one way,</i> if none o my own friends or intimates will receive me."
                     "If I will transport him with the honour of my choice of this <i>one way,</i> settlements shall be drawn with proper blanks, which I shall fill up as I please? Let him but have my commands from my own mouth; all my doubts and scruples from my own lips; and only a repetition, that I will not, on any
consideration, be Solmes's wife; and he shall be easy.—But, after such a letter as I have written, nothing but an interview can make him so."
He beseeches me, therefore,
"To unbolt the door, <i>as that very night.</i>—If I receive not this time enough, <i>this night</i>;—and he will in a disguise, that shall not give a suspicion who he is, if he should be seen, come to the garden-door, in hopes to open it with his key; nor will he have any other lodging than in the Coppice both nights: watching every wakeful hour for the propitious unbolting, unless he has a letter with my orders to the contrary, or to make some other appointment."
                  This letter was dated yesterday: So he was there last night, I suppose; and will be there this night; and I have not written a line to him: And now it is too late, were I determined <i>what</i> to write.
                  I hope he will not go to Mr. Solmes!—I hope he will not come hither!—If he does, I will break with him for ever.
                  What have I to do, with such headstrong spirits! I wish I had never—But what signifies wishing?—I am strangely perplexed—But I need not have told you this, after such a representation of my situation.