               
            33.4. 
               
                  
                     <i>Nine o' clock.</i>
                  
               
               CONFOUNDED art, cunning, villainy!—By my soul, she had like to have slipt thro' my fingers. She meant nothing by her message, but to get Dorcas out of the way, and a clear coast. Is a fancied distress sufficient to justify this lady for dispensing with her principles? Does she not shew me, that she can wilfully deceive, as well as I?
               Had she been in the fore-house, and no passage t go thro' to get at the street-door, she had certainly been gone. But her haste betray'd her: For Sally Martin happening to be in the fore-parlour, and hearing a swifter motion than usual, and a rustling  silks, as if from somebody in a hurry, looked out? and seeing who it was, stept between her and th door, and set her back against it.
               You must not go, Madam. Indeed you must not.
               By what right?—And how dare you?—And suc like imperious airs the dear creature gave herself. While Sally called out for her aunt; and half a doze voices joined instantly in the cry, for me to haste down, to hasten down, in a moment.
               I was gravely instructing Dorcas above-stairs, a wondering what would be the subject of the coversation which she was to be a witness to, when the outcries reached my ears. And down I flew.—A there was the charming creature, the sweet deceive panting for breath, her back against the partition,
  
parcel in her hand [Women make no excursions without their parcels] Sally, Polly (but Polly obligingly pleading for her) the Mother, Mabell, and Peter (the footman of the house), about her; all, however, keeping their distance; the Mother and Sally between her and the door—In her soft rage the dear soul, repeating, I <i>will</i> go!—Nobody has a right—I <i>will</i> go! —If you kill me, women, I won't go up again!
               As soon as she saw me, she stept a pace or two towards me; Mr. Lovelace, I <i>will</i> go! said she — Do you authorize these women—What right have they, or <i>you</i> either, to stop me?
               Is this, my dear, preparative to the conversation you led me to expect in the dining-room? And do you think I can part with you thus?—Do you think I will?
               And am I, Sir, to be thus beset! — Surrounded thus?—What have these women to do with me?
               I desired them to leave us, all but Dorcas, who was down as soon as I. I then thought it right to assume an air of resolution, having found my tameness so greatly triumphed over. And now, my dear, said I (urging her reluctant feet), be pleased to walk into the fore-parlour. Here, since you will not go up stairs—Here we may <i>hold our parley:</i> and Dorcas <i>
                     e witness to it.</i>—And now, Madam, seating her, and sticking my hands in my sides, your pleasure!
               Insolent villain! said the furious lady. And, rising, an to the window, and threw up the sash [She knew ot, I suppose, that there were iron rails before the indows]. And, when she found she could not get ut into the street, clasping her uplifted hands toge
                  her—having dropt her parcel—For the love of God, ood honest man!—For the love of God, mistress—  two passers-by—a poor, poor creature, said she, hin'd! —
               I clasp'd her in my arms, people beginning to gather  out the window: And then she cried out, Murder!
  
Help! help!—And carried her up to the dining-room, in spight of her little plotting heart (as I may now cal it), altho' she violently struggled, catching hold of the banisters here and there, as she could. I would have seated her there, but she sunk down half-motionless, pale as ashes. And a violent burst of tears happly reliev'd her.
               Dorcas wept over her. The wench was actually moved for her!
               Violent hysterics succeeded. I left her to Mabell, Dorcas, and Polly; the latter the most supportable to her of the sisterhood.
               This attempt, so resolutely made, alarmed me not a little.
               Mrs. Sinclair, and her nymphs, are much more concerned; because of the reputation of their house, as they call it, having receiv'd some insults (broken windows threaten'd), to make them produce the young creature who cried out.
               While the mobbish inquisitors were in the heigh of their office, the women came running up to me, to know what they should do; a constable bein actually fetch'd.
               Get the constable into the parlour, said I, wi three or four of the forwardest of the mob, and produce one of the nymphs, onion-ey'd, in a moment with disorder'd head-dress and neck-kerchief, and le her own herself the person: The occasion, a femal skirmish; but satisfied with the justice done her. Th give a dram or two to each fellow, and all will be we
               
            
            33.5. 
