                  Thursday, April 20.
               Honoured Madam,
            HAVING not had the favour of an answer to a letter I took the liberty to write to you on the 14th, I am in some hopes that it may have miscarried; for I had much rather it should, than to have the mortification to think, that my aunt Hervey deem'd me unworthy of the honour of her notice.
            In this hope, having kept a copy of it, and not being able to express myself in terms better suited to the unhappy circumstance of things, I transcribe and inclose what I then wrote. And I humbly beseech you to favour the contents of it with your interest.
            Hitherto it is in my power to perform what I undertake for in this letter; and it would be very grievous
to me to be precipitated upon measures, which may render the desireable reconciliation more difficult.
            If, Madam, I were permitted to write to you with the hopes of being answer'd, I could clear my intention with regard to the step I have taken, altho' I could not acquit myself, perhaps, to some of my severest judges, of an imprudence previous to it.ÑYou, I am sure, would pity me, if you knew all I could say, and how miserable I am in the forfeiture of the good opinion of all my friends.
            I flatter myself, that <i>their</i> favour is yet retrievable. But whatever be the determination at Harlowe-Place, do not <i>you,</i> my dearest aunt, deny me the favour of a few lines, to inform me if there can be any hope of a reconciliation upon terms less shocking than those heretofore endeavoured to be imposed upon me; or if, which God forbid! I am to be for ever reprobated.
            At least, my dear aunt, procure for me the justice of my wearing apparel, and the little money, and other things, which I wrote to my sister for, and mention in the inclosed to you; that I may not be destitute of common conveniencies, or be under a necessity to owe an obligation for such, where (at present, however) I would least of all owe it.
            Allow me to say, that had I <i>designed</i> what happened, I might, as to the money and jewels, at least, have saved myself some of the mortifications which I have suffer'd, and which I still farther apprehend, if my request be not comply'd with.
            If you are permitted to encourage an eclaircissement of what I hint, I will open my whole heart to you, and inform you of every thing.
            If it be any pleasure to have me mortify'd, be pleased to let it be known, that I am extremely mortify'd: And yet it is <i>intirely</i> from my own reflections that I am so:ÑHaving nothing to find fault with, in the
behaviour of the person from whom every evil was apprehended.
            The bearer having business your way, will bring me your answer on Saturday morning, if you favour me according to my hopes. I knew not that I should have this opportunity till I had wrote the above.
            I am, my dearest aunt,
               Your ever-dutiful CL. HARLOWE.
                  Be pleased to directed for me, if I am to be favoured with a few lines, to be left at Mr. Osgood's near Soho-square; and nobody shall ever know of your goodness to me, if you desire it to be kept a secret.