                  Tuesday, April 18.
            YOU have a most implacable family. Another visit from your uncle Antony has not only confirm'd my mamma an enemy to our correspondence, but has almost put her upon treading in their steps.
            But, to other subjects:
            You plead generously for Mr. Hickman:—Perhaps, with regard to him, I may have done, as I have often done in singing or music—Begun a note or key too high; and yet, rather than begin again, proceed, tho' I strain my voice, or spoil my tune.—But this is evident, the man is more observant for it; and you have taught me, that the spirit which is the humbler for ill-usage, will be insolent upon better. So, good and grave Mr. Hickman, keep your distance a little longer, I beseech you. You have erected an altar to me; and I hope you will not refuse to bow to it.
            But you ask me, if I would treat Mr. Lovelace, were he to be in Mr. Hickman's place, as I do Mr. Hickman?—Why really, my dear, I believe I should not.—I have been very sagely considering this point of behaviour, in general, on both sides, in courtship; and I will very candidly tell you the result. I have concluded, that politeness, even to excess, is necessary on the mens part, to bring us to listen to their first addresses, in order to induce us to bow our necks to a yoke so unequal. But, upon my conscience, I very much doubt, whether a little intermingled insolence is not requisite from them, to keep up that interest, when once it has got footing. Men must not let us see, that we can make fools of them. And, I think, that <i>smooth</i> love, that is to say, a passion without
rubs; in other words, a passion without passion, is like a sleepy stream that is hardly seen to give motion to a straw. So that, sometimes to make us fear, and even, for a short space, to <i>hate</i> the wretch, is productive of the <i>contrary</i> extreme.
            If this be so, Lovelace, than whom no man was ever more polite and obsequious at the <i>beginning,</i> has hit the very point. For his turbulence <i>since,</i> his readiness to offend, and his equal readiness to humble himself, as he is known to be a man of sense, and of courage too, must keep a woman's passion alive; and at last, tire her into a non-resistance, that shall make her as passive as a tyrant husband would wish her to be.
            I verily think, that the different behaviour of our two heroes to their heroines, makes out this doctrine to demonstration. I am so much accustom'd, for my own part, to Hickman's whining, creeping, submissive courtship, that I now expect nothing but whine and cringe from him; and am so little moved with his nonsense, that I am frequently forced to go to my harpsichord, to keep me awake, and to silence his humdrum.—Whereas Lovelace keeps up the ball with a witness, and all his address and conversation is one continual game at racket.
            Your frequent quarrels and reconciliations verify this observation: And I really believe, that, could Hickman have kept my attention alive after the Lovelace manner, only that he had preserv'd his morals, I should have marry'd the man by this time. But then he must have <i>set out</i> accordingly. For now, he can never, never recover himself, that's certain; but must b dangler to the end of the courtship chapter; and, what is still worse for him, a passive to the end of his life.
            Poor Hickman! perhaps you'll say. I have been called your Echo—Poor Hickman! say I.
            You wonder, my dear, that Mr. Lovelace took
not notice to you of his aunt's and cousin's letters to him, over-night. I don't like his keeping such a material and <i>relative</i> circumstance, as I may call it, one moment from you. By his communicating the contents of them to you next day, when you was angry with him, it looks as if he with-held them for occasional pacifiers; and if so, must he not have had a forethought that he might give you <i>cause</i> for anger? Of all the circumstances that have happen'd since you have been with him, I think I like this the least. This alone, my dear, small as it might look to an indifferent eye, in mine warrants all your cautions. Yet I think, that Mrs. Greme's letter to her sister Sorlings; his repeated motions for Hannah's attendance; and for that of one of the widow Sorlings's daughters; and, above all, for that of Mrs. Norton, are agreeable counterbalances. Were it not for those circumstances, I should have said a great deal more of the other. Yet the foolish man, to let you know over-night, that he <i>had</i> such letters!—I can't tell what to make of him.
            I am pleased with what these ladies write. And the more, as I have caused them to be again sounded, and find, that the whole family are as desirous as ever of your alliance.
            I think there can be no objection to your going to London. There, as in the centre, you'll be in the way of hearing from every-body, and sending to any-body. And then you will put all his sincerity to the test, as to his promised absence, and such-like.
            But really, my dear, I think you have nothing for it but marriage. You may try (that you may say you <i>have</i> try'd), what your relations can be brought to. But the moment they refuse your proposals, submit to the yoke, and make the best of it. He will be a savage indeed, if he makes you speak out. Yet, it is my opinion, that you <i>must</i> bend a little; for he cannot bear to be thought slightly of.
            This was one of his speechcs once; I believe design'd
for me—
"A woman who means one day to favour a man, should shew the world, for her <i>own</i> sake, that she distinguishes her adorer from the common herd."
            Shall I give you another fine sentence of his, and in the true libertine stile, as he spoke it, throwing out his challenging hand?—
"D—n him, if he would marry (indelicate as some persons thought him to be) the first princess on earth, if he but thought she balanced a minute in her choice of him, or of an emperor."
            All the world, in short, expect you to have this man. They think, that you left your father's house for this very purpose. The longer the ceremony is delay'd, the worse appearance it will have in the world's eye. And it will not be the fault of some of your relations, if a slur be not thrown upon your reputation, while you continue unmarried. Your uncle Antony in particular, speaks rough and vile things, grounded upon the morals of his Brother-Orson. But hitherto your admirable character has antidoted the poison; the speaker is despised, and every one's indignation raised against him.
            I have written thro' many interruptions: And you'll see the first sheet creased and rumpled, occasioned by putting it into my bosom, on my mamma's sudden coming upon me. We have had one very pretty debate, I'll assure you; but it is not worth while to trouble you with the particulars.—But upon my word—No matter tho'—
            Your Hannah cannot attend you. The poor girl left her place about a fortnight ago, on account of a rheumatic disorder, which has confined her to her room ever since. She burst into tears, when Kitty carried to her your desire of having her, and called herself doubly unhappy, that she could not wait upon a mistress whom she so dearly loved.
            Were my mamma to have answer'd my wishes, I
should have been sorry Mr, Lovelace had been the <i>first</i> proposer of my Kitty for your attendant, till Hannah could come. To be altogether among strangers, and a stranger to attend you every time you remove, is a very disagreeable thing. But your considerateness and bounty will make you faithful ones where-ever you go.
            You must take your own way: But if you suffer any inconvenience, either as to cloaths or money, that is in my power to supply, I will never forgive you. My mamma [if <i>that</i> be your objection) need not know any thing of the matter.
            Your next letter, I suppose, will be from London. Pray direct it, and your future letters, till further notice, to Mr. Hickman, at his own house. He is intirely devoted to you. Don't take so heavily my mamma's partiality and prejudices. I hope I am past a baby.
            Heaven preserve you, and make you as happy as I think you deserve to be, prays
               Your ever-affectionate ANNA HOWE.
