
                           <i>Friday, May</i> 12.
                  I Must be silent, my exalted friend, under praises that oppress my heart with a consciousness of not deserving them; at the same time, that the generous design of those praises raises and comforts it: For it is a charming thing to stand high in the opinion of those we love: And to find that there are souls that can carry their friendships beyond accidents, beyond body, and ties of blood. Whatever, my dearest creature, is <i>my</i> shining-time, the adversity of a friend is <i>yours.</i> And it would be almost a fault in me to regret those afflictions, which give you an opportunity so gloriously to exert those qualities, which not only ennoble our sex, but dignify human nature.
                  But let me proceed to subjects less agreeable.
                  I am sorry you have reason to think Singleton's projects are not at an end. But who knows what the sailor had to propose?ÑYet had any good been intended
me, this method would hardly have been fallen upon.
                  Depend upon it, my dear, your letters shall be safe.
                  I have made a handle of Mr. Lovelace's bold attempt and freedom, as I told you I would, to keep him ever since at distance, that I may have an opportunity to see the success of the application to my uncle, and to be at liberty to embrace any favourable overtures that may arise from it. Yet he has been very importunate, and twice brought Mr. Mennell from Mrs. Fretchville, to talk about the house. If I should be obliged to make up with him again, I shall think I am always doing myself a spight.
                  As to what you mention of his newly-detected crimes; and your advice to attach Dorcas; and to come at some of his letters; these things will require more or less of my attention, as I may hope favour, or not, from my uncle Harlowe.
                  I am sorry for poor Hannah's continued illness. Pray, my dear, inform yourself, for me, whether she wants any thing that befits her case.
                  I will not close this letter till to-morrow is over; for I am resolved to go to church; and this as well for the sake of my duty, as to see, if I am at liberty to go out when I please, without being attended or accompanied.