                           Honoured Madam,
                        HAVING acknowleged to you, that I had received letters from Mr. Lovelace, full of resentment, and that I answered them purely to prevent further mischief; and having shew'd you copies of my answers, which you did not disapprove of, altho' you thought fit, after you had read them, to forbid me any further correspondence with him; I think it my duty to acquaint you, that another letter from him has since come to my hand, in which he is very earnest with me to permit him to wait on my papa, or you, or my two uncles, in a pacific way, accompanied by Lord M.ÑOn which I beg your commands.
                        I own to you, Madam, that had not the prohibition been renew'd, and had not Hannah been so suddenly dismissed my service, I should have made the less scruple to have written an answer, and to have commanded her to convey it to him with all speed, in order to dissuade him from these visits, lest any thing should happen on the occasion, that my heart akes but to think of.
                        And here, I cannot but express my grief, that I should have all the punishment, and all the blame, who, as I have reason to think, have prevented great mischief, and have not been the occasion of any. For, Madam, could <i>I</i> be supposed to govern the passions of <i>either</i> of the gentlemen?ÑOver the one indeed,
I have had some little influence, without giving him hitherto any reason to think he has fasten'd an obligation upon me for it.ÑOver the other, Who, Madam, has any?
                        I am grieved at heart, to be obliged to lay so great blame at my brother's door, altho' my reputation and my liberty are both to be sacrific'd to his resentment and ambition. May not, however, so deep a sufferer be permitted to speak out?
                        This communication being as voluntarily made, as dutifully intended; I humbly presume to hope, that I shall not be required to produce the letter itself. I cannot either in honour or prudence do that, because of the vehemence of his style; for having heard [not, I assure you, by my means, or thro' Hannah's] of some part of the harsh treatment I have met with; he thinks himself intitled to place it to his own account, by reason of speeches thrown out by some of my relations equally vehement.
                        If I do <i>not</i> answer him, he will be made desperate, and think himself justified [tho' I shall not think him so] in resenting the treatment he complains of: If I <i>do,</i> and if, in compliment to me, he forbears to resent what he thinks himself intitled to resent; be pleased, Madam, to consider the obligation he will suppose he lays me under.
                        If I were as strongly prepossessed in his favour as is supposed, I should not have wish'd this to be consider'd by you.ÑAnd permit me, as a still further proof that I am <i>not</i> prepossessed, to beg of you to consider, Whether, upon the whole, the proposal I made of declareing for the Single Life (which I will religiously adhere to) is not the best way, to get rid of his pretensions with honour. To renounce him, and not to be allowed to aver, that I will never be the other man's, will make him conclude (driven as I am driven), that I am determined in that other man's favour.
                        If this has not its due weight, my brother's strange
schemes must be try'd, and I will resign myself to my destiny, with all the acquiescence that shall be granted to my prayers. And so leaving the whole to your own wisdom, and whether you choose to consult my papa and uncles upon this humble application, or not; or whether I shall be allowed to write an answer to Mr. Lovelace, or not (and if allow'd so to do, I beg your direction, by whom to send it); I remain,
                           Honoured Madam, Your unhappy, but ever-dutiful daughter, CL. HARLOWE.
