And now, Belford, will I give thee an account of our first breakfast conversation."
                     "All sweetly serene and easy was the lovely brow and charming aspect of my goddess, on her descending to us; commanding reverence from every eye a courtesy from every knee; and silence, awful silence, from every quivering lip. While she arm'd with conscious worthiness and superiority looked and behaved, as an empress would among her vassals; yet with a freedom from pride and haughtiness, as if born to dignity, and to a behaviour habitually gracious.
How difficult is it to make a woma subscribe to a preference against herself, tho' ev so visible; especially where love is concerned.
This violent, this partial little devil, Sally, has the insolence to compare herself with an angel—yet owns her to be an angel. I charge you, Mr. Lovelace, said she, shew none of your extravagant acts of kindness before me, to this sullen, this gloomy beauty!—I cannot bear it.—Then her first sacrifices were remember'd—What a rout do these women make about nothing at all! Were it not for what the learned bishop, in his letter from Italy, calls the delicacy of intrigue, what is there, Belford, in all they can do for us?—"
                     "How do these creatures endeavour to stimulate me! A fallen woman, Jack, is a worse devil than even a profligate man. The former is above all remorse: That am not I—Nor ever shall they prevail upon me, tho' aided by all the powers of darkness, to treat this admirable creature, with indignity—So far, I mean, as indignity can be separated from the trials, which will prove her to be either woman or angel."
                     "Yet with them, I am a craven: I might have had her before now, if I would: If I would treat her as flesh and blood, I should find her such: They thought that I knew, if any man living did, that to make a goddess of a woman, she would assume the goddess; to give her power, she would act up to it to the giver, if to nobody else—And D—r's wife is thrown into my dish, who, thou knowest, kept her over-ceremonious husband at haughty distance, and whined in private to her insulting footman.—O how I cursed the blaspheming wretches!—They will make me, as I tell them, hate their house; and never rest, till I remove her.—And by my soul, Jack, I begin to repent already, that I have brought her hither—And yet, without knowing their hearts, she resolves against having any more conversation with them than she can avoid. This I am not sorry for;
since jealousy in woman is not to be concealed from woman. And Sally has no command of herself.