<i>Tuesday, May</i> 9.
                  I Am a very unhappy fellow. This lady is said to to be one of the sweetest temper'd creatures in the world: And so I thought her. But to me, she is one of the most perverse. I never was supposed to be an ill-natur'd puppy neither. How can it be? I imagin'd for a long while, that we were born to make each other happy: But, quite the contrary; we really seem to be sent to plague one another.
                  I will write a Comedy, I think. I have a title ready; and that's half the work. <i>The Quarrelsome Lovers.</i> 'Twill do. There's something new and striking in it. Yet, more or less, all lovers quarrel. Old Terence has taken notice of that; and observes upon it, That lovers falling-out occasions lovers falling-in; and a better understanding of course. 'Tis natural that it should be so. But with us, we fall-out so often, without falling-in once; and a second quarrel so generally happens before a first is made up; that it is hard to guess what event our loves will be attended with. But Shakespeare says;
                        —Come what come may,
                        Patience and time run thro' the roughest day.
And that shall be my comfort. No man living bears crosses better than myself: But then they must be of <i>my own</i> making: And even This is a great merit, and a great excellence, think what thou wilt: Since most of the troubles, which fall to the lot of mortals, are brought upon themselves, either by their <i>too large</i> desires, or <i>too little</i> deserts. But I shall make myself a common man by-and-by: Which is what no one yet ever thought me. I will now lead to the occasion of this preamble.
                  I had been out. On my return, meeting Dorcas on the stairs—Your lady in her chamber, Dorcas? In the dining-room, Sir: And if ever you hope for an opportunity to come at a letter, it must be now. For at her feet I saw one lie, which, by its open'd folds, she has been reading, with a little parcel of others she is now busied with. All pulled out of her pocket, as I believe: So, Sir, you'll know where to find them another time.
                  I was ready to leap for joy, and instantly resolved to bring forward an expedient which I had held in petto; and entering into the dining-room, with an air of transport, I boldly clasped my arms about her, as she sat (she huddling up her papers in her handkerchief all the time, the dropt paper unseen): O my dearest life, a lucky expedient have Mr. Mennell and I hit upon, just now. In order to hasten Mrs. Fretchville to quit the house, I have agreed, if you approve of it, to entertain her cook, her housemaid, and two men-servants (about whom she was very solicitous), till you are provided to your mind. And that no accommodations may be wanted, I have consented to take the houshold linen at an appraisement.
                  I am to pay down 500 l. and the remainder as soon as the bills can be look'd up, and the amount of them
adjusted. Thus will you have a charming house intirely ready to receive you, and any of my friends. They will soon be with you: They will not permit you long to suspend my happy day.—And that nothing may be wanting to gratify your utmost punctilio, I will till then consent to stay here at Mrs. Sinclair's, while you reside at your new house; and leave the rest to your own generosity.
                  O my beloved creature, will not this be agreeable to you? I am sure it will—It must—And clasping her closer to me, I gave her a more fervent kiss than ever I had dared to give her before: But still let not my ardor overcome my discretion; for I took care to set my foot upon the letter, and scraped it farther from her, as it were behind her chair.
                  She was in a passion at the liberty I took. Bowing low, I begg'd her pardon; and, stooping still lower, in the same motion, took it up, and whipt it in my bosom.
                  Pox on me, for a puppy, a fool, a blockhead, a clumsy varlet, and a mere Jack Belford!—I thought myself a much cleverer fellow than I am!—Why could I not have been followed in by Dorcas; who might have taken it up, while I addressed her lady?
                  For here, the letter being unfolded, I could not put it into my bosom, without alarming her ears, as my sudden motion did her eyes.—Up she flew in a moment: Traitor! Judas! her eyes flashing lightning, and a perturbation in her eager countenance, so charming!—What have you taken up?—And then, what for both my ears I durst not to have done to her, she made no scruple to seize the stolen letter, tho' in my bosom.
                  Beg-pardon apologies were all that now remained for me, on so palpable a detection. I clasped her hand, which had hold of the ravish'd paper, between mine: O my beloved creature! can you think I have not <i>some</i> curiosity? Is it possible you can be thus for
ever employed; and I, loving narrative letter-writing above every other species of writing, and admiring your talent that way, should not (thus upon the dawn of my happiness, as I presume to hope) burn with a desire to be admitted into so sweet a correspondence.
                  Let go my hand!—stamping with her pretty foot: How dare you, Sir!—At this rate, I see—Too plainly I see—And more she could not say: But, gasping, was ready to faint, with passion and affright; the devil a bit of her accustomed gentleness to be seen in her charming face, or to be heard in her musical voice.
                  Having gone thus far, loth, very loth was I to lose my prize—Once more, I got hold of the rumpled-up letter!—Impudent man! were her words: Stamping again: For God's sake, then it was!—I let go my prize, lest she should faint away: But had the pleasure first to find my hand within both hers, she trying to open my reluctant fingers. How near was my heart, at that moment, to my hand, throbbing to my fingers ends, to be thus familiarly, altho' angrily, treated by the charmer of my soul!
                  When she had got it in her possession, she flew to the door: I threw myself in her way, shut it, and, in the humblest manner, besought her to forgive me: And yet do you think the Harlowe-hearted charmer would; notwithstanding the agreeable annunciation I came in with?—No, truly! but pushing me rudely from the door, as if I had been nothing (yet do I love to try, so innocently to try, her strength too!); she gaining that force through passion, which I had lost through fear; and out she shot to her own apartment [Thank my stars she could fly no further!]; and as soon as she enter'd it, in a passion still, she double-locked and double-bolted herself in.—This my comfort, on reflection, that, upon a greater offence, it cannot be worse!
                  I retreated to my own apartment, with my heart full. And, my man Will. not being near me, gave
myself a plaguy knock on the forehead, with my double fist.
                  And now is my charmer shut up from me: Refusing to see me; refusing her meals: Resolves <i>not</i> to see me, that's more;—Never again, if she can help it.
                     <i>In the mind she is in</i>—I hope she has said. The dear creatures, whenever they quarrel with their humble servants, should always remember this saving clause, <i>that they may not be forsworn.</i>
                  But thinkest thou that I will not make it the subject of one of my first plots, to inform myself of the reason why all this commotion was necessary on so slight an occasion, as this would have been, were not the letters that pass between these ladies of a treasonable nature?