                  Saturday, March 11.
            I Have had such taunting messages, and such repeated avowals of ill-offices, brought me from my brother and sister, if I do not comply with their wills (delivered, too, with provoking sauciness by Betty Barnes), that I have thought it proper, before I enter'd upon my intended address to my uncles, in pursuance of the hint given me in my mamma's letter, to expostulate a little with <i>them.</i> But, I have done it in such a manner, as will give you (if you please to take it as you have done some parts of my former letters) great advantage over me. In short, you will have more cause than ever, to declare me far gone in Love, if my reasons for the change of my style, in these letters, with regard to Mr. Lovelace, do not engage your more favourable opinion.—For I have thought proper to give them their own way; and, since they will have it, that I have a preferable regard for Mr. Lovelace, I give them cause rather to confirm their opinion than doubt it.
            These are my reasons in brief, for the alteration of my style.
            In the first place, they have grounded their principal argument for my compliance with their will, upon my acknowlegements that my heart is free; and so supposing I give up no preferable person, my opposition has the look of downright obstinacy in their eyes; and they argue, that, at worst, my aversion to Solmes, is an aversion that may be easily surmounted, and <i>ought</i> to be surmounted in duty to my father, and for the promotion of family views.
            Next, altho' they build upon this argument in order to silence me, they seem not to believe me, but
treat me as violently, and as disgracefully, as if I were in love with one of my father's footmen:—So that my conditional willingness to give up Lovelace, has procur'd me no favour.
            In the next place, I cannot but think, that my brother's antipathy to him is far from being well-grounded: His inordinate passion for the sex is his crime, that is always rung in my ears; and a very great one it is: But, does my brother recriminate upon him thus, in love to me?—No—His whole behaviour shews me, that That is not his motive, and that he thinks me rather in his way, than otherwise.
            It is then the call of justice, as I may say, to speak up a little for a man, who, altho' provok'd by my brother, did not do him all the mischief he could have done him, and which my brother had endeavour'd to do <i>him.</i> It might not be amiss therefore, I thought, to alarm them a little with an apprehension, that the methods they are taking with me, are the very reverse of those they should take to answer the end they design by them: And after all, what is the compliment I make Mr. Lovelace, if I <i>allow</i> it to be thought, that I do really prefer him to such a man, as him they terrify me with? Then, my Miss Howe (concluded I) accuses me of a tameness, which subjects me to insults from my brother: I will keep that dear friend in my eye; and for <i>all</i> these considerations, try what a little of <i>her</i> spirit will do—sit it ever so aukwardly upon me.
            In this way of thinking, I wrote to my brother and sister. This is my Letter to him.     
I will now give you a copy of my letter to my sister; with her unsisterly answer.
I had in readiness a letter for each of my uncles; and meeting in the garden a servant of my uncle Harlowe, I gave them to him to deliver according to their respective directions. If I am to form a judgment by the answers I have received from my brother and sister, as above, I must not, I doubt, expect any good from them. But when I have try'd every expedient, I shall have the less to blame myself for, if any thing unhappy should fall out. I will send you copies of both, when I shall see what notice they will be thought worthy of, if of any.
                 