                           Dearest Madam,
                        I Have got intelligence from one as says she knows, that you must be married on Wednesday morning to Mr. Solmes. May-be, howsoever, only to vex me; for it is Betty Barnes: A saucy creature, I'm sure. A license is got, as she says: And so far she went as to tell me (bidding me say nothing; but she knew as that I would) that Mr. Brand the young Oxford Clergyman, and fine scholar, is to marry you. For Dr. Lewin, I hear, refuses, unless you consent; and they have heard that he does not like over-well their proceedings against you; and says, as that you don't deserve to be treated so cruelly as you are treated. But Mr. Brand, I am told, is to have his fortune made by uncle Harlowe, and among them.
                        You will know better than I what to make of all these matters; for sometimes I think Betty tells me things as if I should not tell you, and yet expects as that I will. She, and all the world knows how I love you: And so I would <i>have</i> them. It is an honour to me to love such a dear young Lady, who is an honour to all her family, let them say what they will. But there is such whispering between this Betty, and Miss Harlowe, as you can't imagine; and when that is done, Betty comes and tells me something.
                        This seems to be sure (and that is why I write: But
pray burn it) you are to be searched once more for letters, and for pen and ink; for they know you write. Something they pretend to have betray'd out of one of Mr. Lovelace's servants, as they hope to make something of; I know not what. That must be a very vilde and wicked man, who would brag of Lady's goodness to him, and tell secrets. Mr. Lovelace is too much of a gentleman for that, I dare say. If not, who can be safe of young innocent creatures, such as we be?
                        Then they have a notion, from that false Betty, I beliefe, as that you intend to take something to make yourself sick, or some such thing; and so they will search for phials and powders, and such-like.
                        Strange searching among them! God bless us young creatures, when we come among such suspicious relations. But, thank God, my mamma is not such a one, at the present.
                        If nothing be found, you are to be used kindlier for that, by your papa, at the grand judgment, as I may call it.
                        Yet, sick or well, alas, my dear cousin! you must be married, belike. So says this same creature; and I don't doubt it: But your husband is to go home every night, till you are reconciled to go to him. And so illness can be no pretence to save you.
                        They are sure you will make a good wife, when you be one. So would not I, unless I liked my husband. And Mr. Solmes is always telling them how he will purchase your love and all that, by jewels and fine things.ÑA siccofant of a man!ÑI wish he and Betty Barnes were to come together; and he would beat her every-day till she was good.ÑSo, in brief, secure every thing you would not have seen: And burn This, I beg you. And, pray, dearest Madam, do not take nothing as may hurt your health: For that will not do. I am,
                           Your truly loving Cousin, D. H.
