 <i>Near nine o'clock.</i>
                  I HAVE your kind letter of yesterday. He knows I have. And I shall expect, that he will be inquisitive next time I see him after your opinion of his proposals. I doubted not your approbation of them, and had written an answer on that presumption; which is ready for him. He must study for occasions of procrastination, and to disoblige me, if now any thing happens to set us at variance again.
                  He is very importunate to see me; he has desired to attend me to church. He is angry, that I have declined to breakfast with him. I was sure that I should not be at my own liberty, if I had.—I bid Dorcas tell him, that I desired to have this day to myself; I would see him in the morning, as early as he pleased. She says, she knows not what ails him, but that he is out of humour with every-body.
                  He has sent again, in a peremptory manner. He warns me of Singleton. But surely, I sent him word, if he was not afraid of Singleton at the play-house last night, I need not at church to day: So many churches to one play-house.—I have accepted of his servant's proposed attendance.—But he is quite displeased, it seems. I don't care. I will not be perpetually at his insolent beck.—Adieu, my dear, til I return. The chair waits. He won't stop me, sure as I go down to it.
                  I DID not see him as I went down. He is, i seems, excessively out of humour. Dorcas says, N
with me neither, she believes: But something has vex'd him. This is put on, perhaps, to make me dine with him. But I won't, if I can help it. I shan't get rid of him for the rest of the day, if I do.
                  HE was very earnest to dine with me. But I was resolved to carry this one small point; and so denied to dine myself. And indeed I was endeavouring to write to my cousin Morden; and had begun three different letters, without being able to please myself; so uncertain and so unpleasing is my situation.
                  He was very busy in writing, Dorcas says, and pursued it without dining, because I denied him my company.
                  He afterwards <i>demanded,</i> as I may say, to be admitted to afternoon tea with me: And appealed by Dorcas to his behaviour to me last night; as if, as I sent him word by her, he thought he had a merit in being unexceptionable. However, I repeated my promise to meet him as early as he pleased in the morning, or to breakfast with him.
                  Dorcas says, he raved. I heard him loud, and I heard his servant fly from him, as I thought. You, my dearest friend, say, in one of yours, that you must have somebody to be angry at, when your mother sets you up.—I should be very loth to draw comparisons.—But the workings of passion, when indulg'd, are but too much alike, whether in man or woman.
                  HE has just sent me word, that he insists upon supping with me. As we had been in a good train for several days past, I thought it not prudent to break with him, for little matters. Yet, to be, in a manner, threaten'd into his will, I know not how to bear that.
                  WHILE I was considering, he came up, and, tapping at my door, told me, in a very angry tone, he must see
me this night. He could not rest, till he had been told what he had done to deserve this treatment.
                  I must go to him. Yet perhaps he has nothing new to say to me.—I shall be very angry with him.
                           
                  'Tis hard, answered the fair Perverse, that I am to be so little my own mistress. I will meet you in the dining-room half an hour hence.
                  I went down to wait that half-hour. All the women set me hard to give her cause for this tyranny. They demonstrated, as well from the nature of the <i>sex,</i> as of the <i>case,</i> that I had nothing to hope for from my tameness, and could meet with no worse treatment, were I to be guilty of the last offence. They urged me vehemently to <i>try</i> at least what effect some greater familiarities, than I had ever used with her, would have: And their arguments being strengthened by my just resentments on the discoveries I had made, I was resolved to take some liberties, and, as they were received, to take still greater, and lay all the fault upon her tyranny. In this humour I went up, and never had paralytic so little command of his joints, as I had, as I walked about the dining-room, attending her motions.
                  With an erect mien she enter'd, her face averted, her lovely bosom swelling, and the more charmingly protuberant for the erectness of her mien. O Jack! that sullenness and reserve should give this haughty maid new charms! But in every attitude, in every humour, in every gesture, is beauty beautiful.—By her averted face, and indignant aspect, I saw the dear insolent was
disposed to be angry—But by the fierceness of mine, as my trembling hands seized hers, I soon made fear her predominant passion. And yet the moment I beheld her, my heart was dastardiz'd, damp'd, and reverenced-over. Surely this is an angel, Jack!—And yet, had she not been known to be a female, they would not from <i>babyhood</i> have dressed her as such, nor would she, but upon that conviction, have continued the dress.
                  Let me ask you, Madam, I beseech you tell me, what I have done to deserve this distant treatment?
                  And let me ask you, Mr. Lovelace, why are my retirements to be thus invaded?—What can you have to say to me since last night, that I went with you so much against my will to the play? And after sitting up with you, equally against my will, till a very late hour?—
                  This I have to say, Madam, that I cannot bear to be kept at this distance from you under the same roof. I have a thousand things to say, to talk of, relating to our present and future prospects; but when I want o open my whole soul to you, you are always con
                     riving to keep me at a distance; you make me inconsistent with myself; your heart is set upon delays; you must have views that you will not own. Tell me, Madam, I conjure you to tell me, this moment, without subterfuge or reserve, in what light am I to appear to you in future? I cannot bear this distance; he suspense you hold me in I cannot bear.
                  In what light, Mr. Lovelace? In no bad light, I hope.—Pray, Mr. Lovelace, do not grasp my hands o hard [endeavouring to withdraw her hands]. Pray et me go—
                  You hate me, Madam—
                  I hate nobody, Sir—
                  You <i>hate</i> me, Madam, repeated I.
                  Instigated and resolved, as I came up, I wanted ome new provocation. The devil indeed, as soon as
my angel made her appearance, crept out of my heart; but he had left the door open, and was no farther off than my elbow.
                  You come up in no good temper, I see, Mr. Lovelace—But pray be not violent—I have done you no hurt—Pray be not violent—
                  Sweet creature! And I clasped one arm about her, holding one hand in my other—<i>You have done me no hurt!</i>—You have done me the greatest hurt!—In what have I deserved the distance you keep me at?—I knew not what to say.
                  She struggled to disengage herself—Pray, Mr. Lovelace, let me withdraw. I know not why this is—I know not what I have done to offend you. I see you are come with a design to quarrel with me. If you would not terrify me by the ill-humour you are in, permit me to withdraw. I will hear all you have to say another time—To-morrow morning, as I sent you word; but indeed you frighten me.—I beseech you, if you have any value for me, permit me to withdraw.
                  Night, <i>mid</i>-night, <i>is</i> necessary, Belford. Surprize, terror, <i>must</i> be necessary to the ultimate trial of this charming creature, say the women below what they will—I could not hold my purposes—This was no the first time that I had <i>intended</i> to try if she could forgive.
                  I kissed her hand with a fervor, as if I would hav left my lips upon it—Withdraw then, dearest an ever-dear creature—Indeed I enter'd in a very  humour: I cannot bear the distance you so causle keep me at—Withdraw, however, Madam, since  is your will to withdraw; and judge me generously judge me but as I deserve to be judged; and let m hope to meet you to-morrow morning early, in suc a temper as becomes our present situation, and m future hopes. And so saying, I conducted her to th door, and left her there. But instead of going dow
to the women, went into my own chamber, and locked myself in; ashamed of being awed by her ma
                     estic loveliness and apprehensive virtue, into so great a change of purpose, notwithstanding I had such just provocations from the letters of her saucy friend, founded on her own representations of facts and situations between herself and me.
                           
                  On my entering the dining-room, he took my hands in his, in such a humour, as I saw plainly he was resolved to quarrel with me.—<i>And for what?</i>— never in my life beheld in any-body such a wild, such an angry, such an impatient spirit. I was ter
                     ified; and instead of being as angry as I intended to e, I was forced to be all mildness. I can hardly remember what were his first words, I was so frighted. But, <i>You hate me, Madam! You hate me, Madam!</i> were some of them—with such a fierceness—I wish'd myself a thousand miles distant from him. I hate no
                     ody, said I; I thank God I hate no-body—You ter
                     ify me, Mr. Lovelace—Let me leave you.—The man, my dear, looked quite ugly—I never saw a man ook so ugly, as passion made him look.—<i>And for what?</i>—And he so grasped my hands—fierce creature! He so grasped my hands! In short, he eemed by his looks, and by his words (once putting is arms about me), to wish me to provoke him.—So that I had nothing to do, but to beg of him, which  did repeatedly, to permit me to withdraw; and to promise to meet him at his own time in the morning.
                  It was with a very ill grace, that he complied, on hat condition; and at parting he kissed my hand with uch a savageness, that a redness remains upon it till.
                  Perfect for me, my dearest Miss Howe, perfect for me, I beseech you, your kind scheme with Mrs.
Townsend.—And I will then leave this man. See you not how from step to step, he grows upon me?—I tremble to look back upon his incroachments. And now to give me cause to apprehend more evil from him, than indignation will permit me to express!—O my dear, perfect your scheme, and let me fly from so strange a wretch! He must certainly have views in quarrelling with me thus, which he dare not own! Yet what can they be?
                  I WAS so disgusted with him, as well as frighted by him, that, on my return to my chamber, in a fit of passionate despair, I tore almost in two, the answer I had written to his proposals.
                  I will see him in the morning, because I promised I would. But I will go out, and that without him, or any attendant. If he account not tolerably for his sudden change of behaviour, and a proper opportunity offer of a private lodging in some creditable house, I will not any more return to this:—At present I think so.—And there will I either attend the perfecting of your scheme; or, by your epistolary mediation, make my own terms with the wretch; since it is your opinion, that I must be his, and cannot help myself. Or, perhaps take a resolution to throw myself at once into Lady Betty's protection; and this will hinder him from making his insolently-threatned visit to Harlowe-Place.
                  
                     "I should say something of your last favour (but a few hours ago received), and of your dialogue with your mother.—Are you not very whimsical, my dear?—I have but two things to wish for on this occasion. The one, that your charming pleasantry had a better subject, than that you find for it in this dialogue. The other, that my situation were not such, as must too often damp that pleasantry, and will not permit me to enjoy it, as I used to do. Be, however, happy in yourself, tho' you cannot in"
                     '<i>Your</i> CLARISSA HARLOWE.'