                  Sat. Mar. 4.
            WOULD you not have thought, that something might have been obtained in my favour, from an offer so reasonable, from an expedient so proper, as I imagine, to put a tolerable end, as <i>from myself,</i> to a correspondence I hardly know how, otherwise, with safety to some of my family, to get rid of!—But my brother's plan (which my mamma spoke of, and of which I have in vain endeavour'd to procure a copy, with a design of taking it to pieces, and exposing it, as I question not there is room to do), together with my papa's impatience of contradiction, is irresistible.
            I have not been in bed all night; nor am I in the least drousy. Expectation, and hope, and doubt (an uneasy state!), kept me sufficiently wakeful. I stept
down at my usual time, that it might not be known I had not been in bed; and gave directions in the family way.
            About eight o' clock Shorey came to me from my mamma, with orders to attend her in her chamber.
            My mamma had been weeping, I saw by her eyes: But her aspect seem'd to be less tender, and less affectionate, than the day before; and this struck me with an awe, as soon as I entered her presence, which gave a great damp to my spirits.
            Sit down, Clary Harlowe; I shall talk to you by-and-by: And was looking into a drawer among laces and linen, in a way neither busy nor unbusy.
            After some time, she ask'd me coldly, What directions I had given for the day?
            I gave her the bill of fare for this day, and tomorrow, if, I said, it pleased her to approve of it.
            She made a small alteration in it; but with an air so cold and so solemn, as added to the emotions I enter'd into her presence with.
            Mr. Harlowe talks of dining out to-day, I think, at my brother Antony's.—
            Mr. Harlowe!—Not my papa!—Have I not then a papa!—thought I?
            Sit down when I bid you.
            I sat down.
            You look very sullen, Clary.
            I hope not, Madam.
            If children would always be children—parents—And there she stopt.
            She then went to her toilette, and looked in the glass, and gave half a sigh—the other half, as if she would not have sighed, could she have help'd it, she gently hem'd away.
            I don't love to see the girl look so sullen.
            Indeed, Madam, I am not sullen.—And I arose, and, turning from her, drew out my handkerchief, for the tears ran down my cheeks. I thought, by
the glass before me, I saw the <i>mother</i> in her soften'd eye cast towards me.—But her words confirm'd not the hop'd-for tenderness.
            One of the provoking'st things in the world is, to have people cry for what they can help!
            I wish to heaven I could, Madam!—and I sobb'd again.
            Tears of penitence and sobs of perverseness are mighty well suited!—You may go up to your chamber. I shall talk with you by-and-by.
            I courtesy'd with reverence.—
            Mock me not with outward gesture of respect. The heart, Clary, is what I want.
            Indeed, Madam, you have it. It is not so much mine, as my mamma's!
            Fine talking!—As somebody says, If words were duty, Clarissa Harlowe would be the dutifullest child breathing.
            God bless that somebody!—Be it whom it will, God bless that somebody!—And I courtesy'd, and, pursuant to her last command, was going.
            She seem'd struck; but <i>was</i> to be angry with me.
            So turning from me, she spoke with quickness, Whither now, Clary Harlowe?
            You commanded me, Madam, to go to my chamber.
            I see you are very ready to go out of my presence. Is your compliance the effect of sullenness, or obedience?—You are very ready to leave me.
            I could hold no longer; but threw myself at her feet: O my dearest mamma! Let me know all I am to suffer: Let me know what I am to be! I will bear it, if I <i>can</i> bear it: But your displeasure I cannot bear!
            Leave me, leave me, Clary Harlowe!—No kneeling!—Limbs so supple; Will so stubborn!—Rise, I tell you.
            I cannot rise! I will disobey my mamma, when
she bids me leave her, without her being reconciled to me! No sullens, my mamma: No perverseness: But, worse than either, This is direct disobedience!—Yet tear not yourself from me! (wrapping my arms about her as I kneeled; she struggling to get from me; my face lifted up to hers, with eyes running over, that spoke not my heart if they were not all humility and reverence.) You must not, must not, tear yourself from me! (for still the dear lady struggled, and looked this way and that, in a sweet disorder, as if she knew not what to do.)—I will neither rise, nor leave you, nor let you go, till you say you are not angry with me.
            O thou ever-moving child of my heart! (folding her dear arms about my neck, as mine embraced her knees.) Why was this task!—But leave me!—You have discomposed me beyond expression!—Leave me, my dear!—I won't be angry with you—if I can help it—if you'll be good.
            I arose trembling, and, hardly knowing what I did, or how I stood or walk'd, withdrew to my chamber. My Hannah followed me, as soon as she heard me quit my mamma's presence, and with salts and spring-water just kept me from fainting; and that was as much as she could do. It was near two hours before I could so far recover myself as to take up my pen, to write to you how unhappily my hopes have ended.
            My mamma went down to breakfast. I was not fit to appear: But if I had been better, I suppose I should not have been sent for; my papa's hint, when in my chamber, being, To bring me down, if worthy of the name of daughter. That, I doubt, I never shall be in <i>his</i> opinion, if he be not brought to change his mind as to this Mr. Solmes.
