                                 Edgware,
Tuesday-night, May 2.
            WIthout staying for the promised letter from you to inform us what the lady says of <i>us,</i> I write to tell you, That we are all of <i>one</i> opinion with regard to <i>her</i>; which is, that there is not of her age a finer lady in the world, as to her understanding. As for her person, she is at the age of bloom, and an admirable creature; a perfect beauty: But this <i>poorer</i> praise a man can hardly descend to give, who has been honour'd with her conversation; and yet she was brought amongst us against her will.
            Permit me, dear Lovelace, to be a means of saving this excellent creature from the dangers she hourly runs from the most plotting heart in the world. In
a former, I pleaded your own family, Lord M.'s wishes particularly; and then I had not seen her: But now, I join her sake, honour's sake, motives of justice, generosity, gratitude, and humanity, which are all concern'd in the preservation of so fine a creature.ÑThou knowest not the anguish I should have had (whence arising, I cannot devise), had I not known before I set out this morning, that the incomparable creature had disappointed thee in thy cursed view of getting her to admit the specious Partington for a bedfellow!
            There is something so awful, and yet so sweet, in this lady's aspect [I have done nothing but talk of her ever since I saw her], that were I to have the Virtues and the Graces all drawn in one piece, they should be taken, every one of them, from different airs and attitudes in her. She was born to adorn the age she was given to, and would be an ornament to the first dignity. What a piercing, yet gentle eye, every glance, I thought, mingled with love and fear of you: What a sweet smile darting through the cloud that overspread her fair face; demonstrating, that she had more apprehensions and grief at her heart, than she cared to express!
            You may think what I am going to write too flighty; but, by my faith, I have conceived such a profound reverence for her sense and judgment, that, far from thinking the man excusable who should treat her basely, I am ready to regret that such an angel of a lady should even marry. She is, in my eye, all mind: And were she to meet with a man all mind likewise, why should the charming qualities she is mistress of, be endangered? Why should such an angel be plunged so low as into the vulgar offices of domestic life? Were she mine, I should hardly wish to see her a mother, unless there were a kind of moral certainty, that minds like hers could be propagated. For why, in short, should not the work of bodies be
left to <i>mere</i> bodies? I know, that you yourself have an opinion of this lady little less exalted than mine. Belton, Mowbray, Tourville, are all of my mind; are full of her praises; and swear, it would be a million of pities to ruin a lady, in whose fall none but devils can rejoice.
            What must that merit and excellence be, that can extort this from <i>us,</i> free livers, like yourself, and all of us your partial friends, who have joined with you in your just resentments against the rest of her family, and offered our assistance to execute your vengeance on them? But we cannot think it reasonable, that you should punish an innocent lady, who loves you so well; and who is in your protection, and has suffered so much for you, for the faults of her relations.
            And here, let me put a serious question, or two. Thinkest thou, truly admirable as this lady is, that the end thou proposest to thyself, if obtained, is answerable to the means, to the trouble thou givest thyself, and the perfidies, tricks, stratagems, and contrivances thou hast already been guilty of, and still meditatest? In every real excellence she surpasses all her sex. But in the article thou seekest to subdue her for, a mere sensualist of her sex, a Partington, a Horton, a Martin, would make a sensualist a thousand times happier than she either will or can.
‘Sweet are the joys that come with willingness."
And wouldst thou make her unhappy for her whole life, and thyself not happy for a single moment?
            Hitherto, it is not too late; and that, perhaps, is as much as can be said, if thou meanest to preserve her esteem and good opinion, as well as person; for I think it is impossible she can get out of thy hands, now she is in this cursed house: O that damn'd hypocritical <i>Sinclair,</i> as thou callest her! How was it possible she should behave so speciously as she did, all the time the lady staid with us! Be honest, and marry; and be
thankful, that she will condescend to have thee. If thou dost not, thou'lt be the worst of men; and will be condemned in this world and the next: As I am sure thou oughtest, and shouldest too, wert thou to be judged by one, who never before was so much touched in a woman's favour: And whom thou knowest to be
               Thy partial friend, J. BELFORD.
                  Our companions consented, that I should withdraw to write to the above effect. They can make nothing of the characters we write in; so I read this to them; and they approve of it; and of their own motion each man would set his name to it. I would not delay sending it, for fear of some detestable scheme taking place.
                     
                        THOMAS BELTON.RICHARD MOWBRAY,JAMES TOURVILLE.
                        Just now are brought me both thine. I vary not my opinion, nor forbear my earnest prayers to thee in her behalf, notwithstanding her dislike of me.

