                        Wednesday, Five o'Clock.
                  I WILL add a few lines—My aunt, as she went down from me, was met at the foot of the stairs by my sister, who seemed to think she had stay'd a good while after her: And hearing her last words prescribing to me implicit duty, praised her for it, and exclaim'd against my obstinacy, with, Did you ever hear of such perverseness, Madam? Could you have thought, that your Clarissa, and every body's Clarissa, was such a girl?—And who, as <i>you</i> said, is to submit, her father or she?
                  My aunt said something in answer to her, compassionating
me, as I thought, by her accent: But I heard not the words.
                  Such a strange perseverance in a measure so unreasonable!—But my brother and sister are continually misrepresenting all I say and do; and I am deprived of the opportunity of defending myself!—My sister says, that had they thought me such a championess, they would not have engaged with me: And now, not knowing how to reconcile my supposed obstinacy with my general character, and natural temper, they seem to hope to tire me out, and resolve to vary their measures accordingly. My brother, you see,, is determin'd to carry this point, or to abandon Harlowe-place, and never to see it more:—So they are to lose a son, or to conquer a daughter—the perversest and most ingrateful that ever parents had!—This is the light he places things in: And has undertaken, it seems, to subdue me, if <i>his</i> advice be followed. It will be <i>further</i> try'd, <i>that</i> I am convinced of; and what will be their next measure, who can divine?
                  I shall dispatch, with this, my answer to yours of Sunday last; begun on Monday; but which is not yet quite finish'd. It is too long to copy: I have not time for it. In it I have been very free with you, my dear, in more places than one. I cannot say, that I am pleas'd with all I have written:—Yet will not now alter it.—My mind is not at ease enough for the subject.—Don't be angry with me. Yet, if you can excuse one or two passages, it will be, because they were written by
                     Your CLARISSA HARLOWE.
