                        Feb. 24.
                  THEY drive on here at a furious rate. The man lives here, I think. He courts them, and is more and more a favourite. Such terms, such settlements! That's the cry!
                  O, my dear, that I had not reason to deplore the family fault, immensely rich as they all are! But this I may the more unreservedly say to you, as we have often join'd in the same concern: I, for a father and uncles; you, for a mother; in every other respect faultless.
                  Hitherto, I seem to be delivered over to my brother, who pretends as great love to me as ever.
                       You may believe, I have been very sincere with him. But he affects to railly me, and not to believe it possible, that one, so dutiful and so discreet as his sister Clary, can resolve to disoblige all her friends.
                  Indeed, I tremble at the prospect before me; for it is evident, that they are strangely determin'd.
                  My father and mother industriously avoid giving me opportunity of speaking to them alone. They ask not for my approbation, intending, as it should seem, to <i>suppose</i> me into their will. And with them I shall hope to prevail, or with no-body. They have not the <i>interest</i> in compelling me, as my brother and sister have: I say less therefore to them, reserving my whole force for an audience with my father, if he will permit me a patient ear. How difficult is it, my dear, to give a negative, where both duty and inclination join to make one wish to oblige!Ñ
                  I have already stood the shock of three of this man's particular visits, besides my share in his more general ones; and find it is impossible I should ever endure him. He has but a very ordinary share of understanding; is very illiterate; knows nothing but the value of estates, and how to improve them; and what belongs to land-jobbing, and husbandry. Yet am I as one stupid, I think. They have begun so cruelly with me, that I have not spirit enough to assert my own negative.
                  My good Mrs. Norton they had endeavour'd, it seems, to influence, before I came home: So intent are they to carry their point: And her opinion not being to their liking, she has been told, that she would do well to decline visiting here for the present: Yet she is the person of all the world, next to my mamma, the most likely to prevail upon me, were the measures they are engag'd in, reasonable measures; or such as she could think so.
                       My aunt likewise having said, that she did not think her niece could ever be brought to like Mr. Solmes, has been obliged to learn another lesson.
                  I am to have a visit from her to-morrow. And, ince I have refused so much as to hear from my brother and sister what the noble settlements are to be, she is to acquaint me with the particulars; and to eceive from me my determination: For my father, I am told, will not have patience but to <i>suppose,</i> that I shall stand in opposition to his will.
                  Mean time it has been signify'd to me, that it will be acceptable, if I do not think of going to church next Sunday.
                  The same signification was made me for last Sunday; and I obey'd. They are apprehensive, that Mr. Lovelace will be there, with design to come home with me.
                  Help me, dear Miss Howe, to a little of your charming spirit: I never more wanted it.
                  The man, you may suppose, has no reason to boast of his progress with me. He has not the sense to say any thing to the purpose. His courtship, indeed, is to <i>them</i>; and my brother pretends to court me as his proxy, truly! I utterly to my brother refuse his application; but thinking a person so well received, and recommended, by all my family, intitled to good manners, all I say against him is affectedly attributed to coyness: And he, not being sensible of his own imperfections, believes that my avoiding him when I can, and the reserves I express, are owing to nothing else:ÑFor, as I said, all his courtship is to <i>them</i>; and I have no opportunity of saying No, to one who asks me not the question. And so, with an air of <i>mannish</i> superiority, he seems rather to pity the bashful girl, than apprehend that he shall not succeed.
