                  Thursday Evening, March 2.
            ON Hannah's depositing my long letter, begun yesterday, but by reason of several interruptions, not finish'd till within this hour, she found and brought me yours of this day. I thank you, my dear, for this
kind expedition:—These few lines will perhaps be time enough deposited, to be taken away by your servant with the others: Yet they are only to thank you, and to tell you my increasing apprehensions.
            I must beg or seek the occasion to apply to my mamma for her mediation;—for I am in danger of having a day fixed, and antipathy taken for bashfulness.—Should not sisters be sisters to each other? Should they not make a common cause of it, as I may say, a cause of sex, on such occasions as the present? Yet mine, in support of my brother's selfishness, and, no doubt, in concert with him, has been urging in full assembly, as I am told, and that with an earnestness peculiar to herself when she sets upon any thing, that an absolute day be given me; and if I comply not, to be told, that it shall be to the forfeiture of all my fortunes, and of all their loves.
            She need not be so officious: My brother's interest, without hers, is strong enough; for he has found means to confederate all the family against me. Upon some fresh provocation, or new intelligence concerning Mr. Lovelace (I know not what it is), they have bound themselves, or are to bind themselves, by a sign'd paper, to one another (the Lord bless me, my dear, what shall I do!), to carry this point of Mr. Solmes, in support of my father's authority, as it is called, and against Lovelace, as a libertine, and an enemy to the family: And if so, I am sure, I may say against <i>me.</i>—How impolitic in them all, to join two people in one interest, whom they wish for ever to keep asunder!
            What the discharg'd steward reported of him was bad enough: What Mrs. Fortescue said, not only confirms that bad, but gives room to think him still worse:—And something my friends have come at, which, as Betty Barnes tells Hannah, is of so heinous a nature, that it proves him to be the worst of men.—But, hang the man, I had almost said,—what is he to me?
What <i>would</i> he be—were not this Mr. Sol—O, my dear, how I hate that man in the light he is proposed to me!—All of them at the same time afraid of Mr. Lovelace;—yet not afraid to provoke him!—How am I intangled!—to be obliged to go on corresponding with him for <i>their</i> sakes—Heaven forbid, that their persisted-in violence should so drive me, as to make it necessary for <i>my own!</i>—But surely <i>they</i> will yield—Indeed <i>I</i> cannot.—I believe the gentlest spirits when provoked (causlesly and cruelly provoked) are the most determin'd.—The reason may be, That not taking up resolutions lightly, their very deliberation makes them the more immoveable.—And then, when a point is clear and self-evident to everybody, one cannot, without impatience, think of entering into an argument or contention upon it.
            An interruption obliges me to conclude myself, in some hurry, as well as fright, what I must ever be,
               Yours more than my own, CLARISSA HARLOWE.
