                  Thursday Night, March 30.
            THE fruits of my inquiry after your abominable wretch's behaviour and baseness, at the paltry ale-house, which he calls an inn; prepare to hear.
            Wrens and Sparrows are not too ignoble a quarry for this villainous goshawk!—His assiduities; his watchings; his nightly risques; the inclement weather he travels in; must not be all placed to <i>your</i> account. He has opportunities of making every thing right to him of that sort. A sweet pretty girl, I am told:—Innocent till he went thither—Now!—Ah! poor girl!—who knows what?
            But just turn'd of Seventeen!—His friend and brother Rake; a man of humour and intrigue, as I am told, to share the social bottle with. And sometimes another disguised Rake or two. No sorrow comes near their hearts. Be not disturbed, my dear, at his <i>hearsenesses.</i> His pretty Betsey, his Rose-bud, as the vile wretch calls her, can <i>hear</i> all he says.
            He is very fond of her. They say she is innocent even yet!—Her father, her grandmother, believe her to be so. He is to fortune her out to a young lover!—Ah! the poor young lover!—Ah! the poor simple girl!
            Mr. Hickman tells me, that he heard in town, that he used to be often at Plays, and at the Opera, with women; and every time with a different one!—Ah! my sweet friend!—But I hope he is nothing to you,
if all this were truth—But this intelligence will do his business, if you had been ever so good friends before.
            A vile wretch! Cannot such purity in pursuit, in view, restrain him? But I leave him to you!—There can be no hope of him. More of a fool, than of such a one. Yet I wish I may be able to snatch the poor young creature out of his villainous paws. I have laid a scheme to do so; if <i>indeed</i> she is hitherto innocent and heart-free.
            He appears to the people as a military man, in disguise, secreting himself on account of a duel fought in town; the adversary's life in suspense. They believe he is a great man. His friend passes for an inferior officer; upon a foot of freedom with him: He, accompany'd by a third man, who is a sort of subordinate companion to the second. The wretch himself but with one servant. O my dear! How pleasantly can these devils, as I must call them, pass their time, while our gentle bosoms heave with pity for their supposed sufferings for us!
            I AM just now inform'd, that, at my desire, I shall see this girl, and her father: I will sift them thoroughly. I shall soon find out such a simple thing as This, if he has not corrupted her already—And if he has, I shall soon find that out too.—If more Art than Nature in either her or her father, I shall give them both up—But, depend upon it, the girl's undone.
            He is said to be fond of her.—He places her at the upper end of his table—He sets her a-pratling.—He keeps his friend at a distance from her.—She prates away.—He admires for nature all she says.—Once was heard to call her charming little creature!—An hundred has he called so no doubt.—Puts her upon singing—Praises her wild note.—O my dear, the girl's undone!—must be undone!—The
man, you know, is LOVELACE-Let 'em bring Wyerley to you, if they will-have you marry'd—Any-body but Solmes and Lovelace be yours!—So advises
               Your ANNA HOWE.
