                        Tuesday Morn, Eight o'Clock.
                  I HAVE another letter from Mr. Lovelace. I open'd it, with the expectation of its being filled with bold and free complaints, on my not writing to prevent his two nights watching, in weather not extremely agreeable. But, instead of complaints, he is
"full of tender concern lest I may have been prevented by indisposition, or by the closer confinement which he has frequently caution'd me that I may expect."
                  He says,
"He had been in different disguises loitering about our garden and park wall, all the day on Sunday last; and all Sunday-night was wandering about the coppice, and near the back-door. It rain'd 
and he has got a great cold, attended with feverishness, and so hoarse, that he has almost lost his voice."
                  Why did he not flame out in his letter?ÑTreated, as I am treated by my friends, it is dangerous for me to lie under the sense of an obligation to any one's patience, when that person suffers in health for my sake.
                     "He had no shelter, he says, but under the great overgrown Ivy, which spreads wildly round the heads of two or three Oaklings; and that was soon wet through."
                  You and I, my dear, once thought ourselves obliged to the natural shade they afforded us, in a sultry day.
                  I can't help saying, I am sorry he has suffer'd for my sake.ÑBut 'tis his own seeking!
                  His letter is dated last night at eight:
"And indisposed as he is, he tells me, That he will watch till ten, in hopes of my giving him the meeting he so earnestly requests. And after that, he has a mile to walk to his horse and servant; and four miles then to ride to his inn."
                  He owns,
"That he has an intelligencer in our family; who has failed him for a day or two past: And not knowing how I do, or how I may be treated, his anxiety is the greater."
                  This circumstance gives me to guess who this treacherous man is: One Joseph Leman: The very creature imploy'd and confided in, more than any other, by my brother.
                  This is not an honourable way of proceeding in Mr. Lovelace.ÑDid he learn this infamous practice of corrupting the servants of other families at the French Court, where he resided a good while?
                  I have been often jealous of this Leman in my little airings and poultry-visits: I have thought him (doubly obsequious, as he was always to me) my brother's spy
upon me; and, altho' he oblig'd me by his hastening out of the garden, and poultry-yard, whenever I came into either, have wonder'd, that from his reports my liberties of those kinds have not been abridged. So, possibly, this man may take a bribe of both, and yet betray both. Worthy views want not such obliquities as these on either side. An honest mind must rise into indignation both at the traitor-maker and the traitor.
                     "He presses with the utmost earnestness for an interview. He would not offer, he says, to disobey my last personal commands, that he should not endeavour to attend me again in the wood-house. But says, he can give me such reasons, for my permitting him to wait upon my father or uncles, as he hopes will be approved by me: For be cannot help observing, that it is no more suitable to my own spirit than to his, that he, a man of fortune and family, should be obliged to pursue such a clandestine address, as would only become a vile fortune-hunter. But, if I will give my consent for his visiting me like a man, and a gentleman, no treatment shall provoke him to forfeit his temper."
                     "His uncle will accompany him, if I please: Or his aunt Lawrance will first make the visit to my mamma, or to my aunt Hervey, or even to my uncles, if I choose it. And such terms shall be offer'd, as <i>shall</i> have weight upon them."
                     "He begs, that I will not deny him making a visit to Mr. Solmes. By all that's good, he vows, that it shall not be with the least intention either to hurt or affront him; but only to set before him calmly and rationally, the consequences that may possibly flow from so fruitless a perseverance; as well as the ungenerous folly of it; to a mind so noble as mine. He repeats his own resolution to attend my pleasure, and Mr. Morden's arrival and advice, for the reward of his own patience."
                     "It is impossible, he says, but one of these methods? <i>must</i> do. Presence, he observes, even of a disliked person, takes off the edge from resentments which absence whets, and makes keen."
                     "He therefore most earnestly repeats his importunities for the supplicated interview."
Says,
"He has business of consequence in London: But cannot stir from the inconvenient spot, where he has for some time resided in disguises unworthy of himself, until he can be absolutely certain, that I shall not be prevailed upon, either by force or otherwise; and until he finds me deliver'd from the insults of my brother. Nor ought This to be an indifferent point to one, for whose sake, all the world reports me to be used so unworthily as I am used.ÑBut <i>one</i> remark, he says, he cannot help making; That did my friends know the little favour I shew him, and the very great distance I keep him at, they would have no reason to confine me, on his account: And <i>another,</i> that they themselves seem to think him intitled to a different usage, and expect that he receives it; when, in truth, what he meets with from me is exactly what they wish him to meet with, excepting in the favour of the correspondence I honour him with: upon which, he says, he puts the highest value, and for the sake of which he has chearfully submitted to a thousand indignities."
                     "He renews his professions of reformation: He is convinc'd, he says, that he has already run a long and dangerous course; and that it is high time to think of returning: It must be from proper convictions, he says, that a person who has lived too gay a life resolves to reclaim, before age or sufferings come upon him."
                     "All generous spirits, he observes, hate compulsion. Upon this observation he dwells; but regrets, that he is likely to owe all his hopes to this compulsion; this <i>injudicious</i> compulsion, he justly calls it; and
none to my esteem for him. Altho' he presumes upon some merit, In his implicit regard to my will: In the bearing the daily indignities offer'd not only to him, but to his relations, by my brother: In the nightly watchings, and risques which he runs, in all weathers; and which his present indisposition makes him mention, or he had not debased the nobleness of his passion for me, by such a selfish instance."
ÑI cannot but say, I am sorry the man is not well.
                  I am afraid to ask you, my dear, what <i>you</i> would have done, thus situated. But what I <i>have</i> done, I <i>have</i> done. In a word, I wrote,
"That I would, if possible, give him a meeting to-morrow night, between the hours of nine and twelve, by the ivy-summer-house, or in it, or near the great cascade, at the bottom of the garden; and would unbolt the door, that he might come in by his own key. But that, if I found the meeting impracticable, or should change my mind, I would signify as much by another line; which he must wait for until it were dark."
