<i>Thursday, May</i> 18.
            I Have neither time nor patience, my dear friend, to answer to every material article in your last let
               ers, just now received. Mr. Lovelace's proposals e all I like of him. And yet (as you do) I think, hat he concludes them not with that warmth and arnestness which we might naturally have expected om him. Never in my life did I hear or read of so atient a man, with such a blessing in his reach. But retches of his cast, between you and me, my dear, ave not, I fancy, the ardors that honest men have. Who knows, as your Bell once spitefully said, but he may have half a dozen creatures to quit his hands of, before he engages for life?—Yet I believe you must not expect him to be honest on this side of his grand macteric.
               <i>He,</i> to suggest delay from a compliment to be made to Lord M. and to give time for settlements!—<i>He,</i> a part of whose character it is, not to know what complaisance to his relations is!—I have no patience with him!—You did indeed want an interposing iend, on the affecting occasion which you mention n yours of yesterday morning. But, upon my word, were I to have been that moment in your ution, and been so treated, I would have torn his
eyes out, and left it to his own heart, when I had done, to furnish the reason for it.
               <i>Would to Heaven to-morrow, without complimenting any-body, might be his happy day!</i>—Villain! After he had himself suggested the compliment!—And I think he accuses YOU of delaying!—Fellow, that he is!—How my heart is wrung—
            But, as matters now stand betwixt you, I am very unseasonable in expressing my resentments against him.—Yet I don't know whether I am or not, neither; since it is the cruellest of fates, for a woman to be forced to have a man whom her heart despises You must, at <i>least,</i> despise him; at times, however. His clenched fist offered to his forehead on your leaving him in just displeasure; I wish it had been a poleax, and in the hand of his worst enemy.
            I will endeavour to think of some method, of some scheme, to get you from him, and to fix you safel somewhere, till your cousin Morden arrives: A scheme to lie by you, and to be pursued as occasio may be given. You are sure, that you can go abroa when you please; and that our correspondence is safe I cannot, however, for the reasons heretofore mentioned, respecting your own reputation, wish you  leave him, while he gives you not cause to suspec his honour. But your heart, I know, would be th easier, if you were sure of some asylum, in case of necessity.
            Yet once more, I say, I can have no notion th he can or dare to mean you dishonour.—But then th man is a fool, my dear—that's all.
            However, since you are thrown upon a fool, ma the fool, at the first opportunity; and tho' I do that this man will be the most ungovernable of foo as all witty and vain fools are, take him as a punishment, since you cannot as a reward. In short, as o given, to convince you, that there is nothing but i perfection in this life.
                 I shall be impatient till I have your next. I am, my dearest friend,
               Your ever-affectionate and faithful <i>ANNA HOWE.</i>
