
                    
                     <i>Wednesday, May</i> 10.
            I Much approve of your resolution to leave this man, if you can have any encouragement from your uncle. And the rather, as I have heard but within these two hours some well-attested stories of him, that shew him to be one of the worst of men as to our Sex. I do assure you, my dear friend, that had he a dozen lives, if all I have heard be true, he might have forfeited them all, and been dead <i>twenty crimes</i> ago.
            If ever you condescend to talk familiarly with him again, ask him after Miss Betterton, and what became of her: And if he shuffle and prevaricate, question him about Miss Lockyer.—O my dear, the man's a villain!
            I will have your uncle sounded, as you desire, and that out of hand. But yet I am afraid of the success;
and this for several reasons. 'Tis hard to say what the sacrifice of your estate would do with some people: And yet I must not, when it comes to the test, permit you to make it.
            As your Hannah continues ill, I would advise you to try to attach Dorcas to your interest. Have you not been impoliticly shy of her?
            I wish you could come at some of his letters. Surely a man of his negligent character cannot be always guarded. If he were, and if you cannot engage your servant, I should suspect them both. Let him be called upon at a short warning when he is writing, or when he has papers lying about, and so surprize him into negligence.
            Such inquiries, I know, are of the same nature with those we make at an inn in travelling, when we look into every corner and closet for fear of a villain; yet should be frighted out of our wits, were we to find one. But 'tis better to detect such a one when awake and up, than to be attacked by him when in bed and asleep.
            I am glad you have your cloaths. But no money; no books; but a <i>Spira,</i> a <i>Drexelius,</i> and a <i>Practice of Piety.</i> Those who sent the latter, ought to have kept it for themselves.—But I must hurry myself from this subject.
            You have excceedingly alarmed me by what you hint of his attempt to get one of my letters. I am assured by my new informant, that he is the head of a gang of wretches [Those he brought you among, no doubt, were some of them], who join together to betray innocent creatures, and to support one another, when they have done, by violence: And were he to come at the knowlege of the freedoms I take with him, I should be afraid to stir out without a guard.
            I am sorry to tell you, that I have reason to think, that your brother has not laid aside his foolish plot. A sun-burnt, sailor-looking fellow was with me just
now, pretending great service to you from Captain Singleton, could he be admitted to your speech. I pleaded ignorance. The fellow was too well instructed for me to get any thing out of him.
            I wept for two hours incessantly, on reading yours, which inclosed that from your cousin Morden. My dearest creature, do not desert yourself: Let your Anna Howe obey the call of that friendship, which has united us as one soul, and endeavour to give you consolation.
            I wonder not at the melancholy reflections you so often cast upon yourself in your letters, for the step you have been forced upon, on one hand, and tricked into on the other. A strange fatality! As if it were designed to shew the vanity of all human prudence. I wish, my dear, as you hint, that both you and I have not too much prided ourselves in a perhaps too conscious superiority over others—But I will stop—How apt are weak minds to look out for judgments in any extraordinary event! 'Tis so far right, that it is better, and safer, and juster, to arraign ourselves, or our dearest friends, than Providence; which must always have wise ends to answer in its dispensations.
            But do not talk, as in one of your former, of being a warning <i>only</i> 
              .—You will be as excellent an example, as ever you hoped to be, as well as a warning: And that will make your story, to all that shall come to know it, of double efficacy: For were it that such a merit as yours could not ensure to herself noble and generous usage from a libertine heart, who will expect any tolerable behaviour from men of his character?
            If YOU think yourself inexcusable for taking a step that put you into the way of delusion, without any intention to go off with him, what must those giddy creatures think of themselves, who, without half your provocations and inducements, and without any regard
to decorum, leap walls, drop from windows, and steal away from their parents house, to the seducer's bed, in the same day?
            Again, if YOU are so ready to accuse yourself for dispensing with the prohibitions of the most unreasonable parents, which yet were but half-prohibitions at first, what ought those to do, who wilfully shut their ears to the advice of the most reasonable; and that, perhaps, where apparent ruin, or undoubted inconvenience, is the consequence of the predetermin'd rashness?
            And, lastly, to all who will know your story, you will be an excellent <i>example</i> of watchfulness, and of that caution and reserve, by which a prudent person, who has been supposed to be a little misled, endeavours to mend her error; and, never once losing sight of her duty, does all in her power to recover the path she has been rather driven out of, than chosen to swerve from.
            Come, come, my dearest friend, consider but these things; and steadily, without desponding, pursue your earnest purposes to amend what you think has been amiss; and it may not be a misfortune in the end, that you have erred; especially as so little of your will was in your error.
            And, indeed, I must say, that I use the words <i>misled,</i> and <i>error,</i> and such-like, only in compliment to your own too ready self-accusations, and to the opinion of one to whom I owe duty: For I think in my conscience, that every part of your conduct is defensible; and that those only are blameable, who have no other way to clear themselves, than by condemning you.
            I expect, however, that such melancholy reflections, as drop from your pen but too often, wil mingle with all your future pleasures, were you to marry I ovelace, and were he to make the best of husbands.
                 You was immensely happy, above the happiness of a mortal creature, before you knew him: Everybody almost worshiped you: Envy itself, which has of late reared up its venomous head against you, was awed by your superior worthiness, into silence and admiration. You was the soul of every company where you visited: Your elders have I seen declining to offer their opinions upon a subject, till you had delivered yours; often to save themselves the mortification of retracting <i>theirs,</i> when they heard <i>yours.</i> Yet, in all this, your sweetness of manners, your humility and affability, caused the subscription every one made to your sentiments, and to your superiority, to be equally unfeigned and unhesitating; for they saw, that their applause, and the preference they gave you to themselves, subjected not themselves to insults, nor exalted you into any visible triumph over them; for you had always something to say, on every point you carried, that raised the yielding heart, and left everyone pleased and satisfied with themselves, tho' they carried not off the palm.
            Your works were shewn, or referred to, whereever fine works were talked of. Nobody had any but an inferior and second-hand praise for diligence, for oeconomy, for reading, for writing, for memory, for facility in learning every-thing laudable, and even for the more envied graces of person and dress, and an all-surpassing elegance in both, where you were known, and those subjects talked of.
            The Poor blessed you every step you trod: The Rich thought you their honour, and took a pride, that they were not obliged to descend from their own class, for an example that did credit to it.
            Tho' all men wished for you, and sought you, young as you was, yet, had not those, who were brought to address you, been encouraged out of sordid and spiteful views to attempt your presence, not
one of them would have dared to lift up his eyes to you.
            Thus happy in all about you, thus making happy all within your circle, could you think that nothing would happen to you, to convince you, that you were not to be exempted from the common lot?—To convince you, that you were not <i>absolutely</i> perfect; and that you must not expect to pass thro' life, without trial, temptation, and misfortune?
            Indeed, it must be owned, that no trial, no temptation, worthy of you, could have well attacked you sooner, or more effectually, than those heavy ones have done: For every common case you were superior to: It must be some man, or some worse spirit in the shape of one, that, formed on purpose, was to be sent to invade you; while as many other such spirits, as there are persons in your family, were permitted to take possession, severally, in one dark hour, of the heart of every one of it, there to sit perching, perhaps, and directing every motion to the motions of the seducer without, in order to irritate, to provoke, to push you forward to meet him.
            So, upon the whole, there seems, as I have often said, a kind of fate in your error, if an error; and this, perhaps, admitted, for the sake of a better example to be collected from your <i>sufferings,</i> than could have been given, had you <i>never erred:</i> For, my dear, ADVERSITY is your SHINING-TIME: I see evidently, that it must call forth graces and beauties, that could not have been seen in a run of that prosperous fortune, which attended you from your cradle till now; admirably as you became, and, as we all thought, greatly as you deserved, that prosperity.
            All the matter is, the trial must be grievous to you: It is to <i>me:</i> It is to all who love you, and looked upon you as one set aloft to be admired and imitated, and not as a mark, as you have lately found, for Envy to shoot its shafts at.
                 style superior to her usual style, will be ready to flat
               er herself, that she has been in a manner inspired with the hints that have comforted and raised the de
               ected heart of her suffering friend; who, from such ard trials, in a bloom so tender, may find at times er spirits sunk too low to enable her to pervade the urrounding darkness, which conceals from her the opeful dawning of the better day which awaits her.
            I will add no more at present, than that I am
               Your ever-faithful and affectionate <i>ANNA HOWE.</i>