<i>Wednesday night, Aug.</i> 30.
            IT was lucky enough that our two servants met at Hannah's, which gave them so good an opportunity of exchanging their letters time enough for each to return to his master early in the day.
            Thou dost well to brag of thy capacity for managing servants, and to set up for correcting our poets in their characters of this class of people, when, like a mad man, thou canst beat their teeth out, and attempt to shoot them thro' the head, for not bringing to thee what they had no power to obtain.
                 You well observe that you would have made a thorough-pac'd Lawyer. The whole of the conversation-piece between you and the Colonel, affords a convincing proof, that there is a black and a white side to every cause: But what must the conscience of a partial whitener of his <i>own</i> cause, or blackener of <i>another's,</i> tell him, while he is throwing dust in the eyes of his judges, and all the time knows his own guilt?
            The Colonel, I see, is far from being a faultless man: But while he sought not to carry his point by breach of faith, he has an excuse which thou hast not. But with-respect to him, and to us all, I can now, with detestation of some of my own actions, see, that the taking advantage of another person's good opinion of us, to injure (perhaps to ruin) that other, is the most ungenerous wickedness that can be committed.
               <i>Man</i> acting thus by <i>man,</i> we should not be at a loss to give such actions a name: But is it not doubly and trebly aggravated, when such advantage is taken of an inexperienced and innocent young creature, whom we pretend to love above all the women in the world; and when we seal our pretences by the most solemn vows and protestations of inviolable honour, that we can invent?
            I see that this gentleman is the best match thou ever couldest have had, upon all accounts: His spirit such another impetuous one as thy own; soon taking fire: vindictive; and only differing in This, that the cause he ingages in is a just one. But, commend me to honest brutal Mowbray, who, before he knew the cause, offers his sword in thy behalf against a man who had taken the injured side, and whom he had never seen before.
            As soon as I had run thro' your letters, and that incendiary Brand's (by the latter of which I saw to what cause a great deal of this last implacableness of the Harlowe family is owing) I took coach to Smith's, altho' I had been come from thence but about an hour, and had taken leave of the lady for the night.
            I sent down for Mrs. Lovick, and desired her, in the first place, to acquaint the lady (who was busied in her closet) that I had letters from Berks: In which I was informed,
that the interview between Col. Morden and Mr. Lovelace had ended without ill consequences; that the Colonel intended to write to her very soon, and was interesting himself mean while in her favour, with her relations; that I hoped, that this agreeable news would be a means of giving her good rest; and I would wait upon her in the morning, by the time she should return from prayers, with all the particulars.
            She sent me word, that she should be glad to see me in the morning; and was highly obliged to me for the good news I had sent her up.
            I then, in the back-shop, read to Mrs. Lovick and to Mrs. Smith, Brand's letter, and asked them, If they could guess at the man's informant? They were not at a loss, Mrs. Smith having seen the same fellow Brand who had talked with her, as I mentioned in a former, come out of a milliner's shop over-against them; which milliner, she said, had also been lately very inquisitive about the lady.
            I wanted no further hint; but, bidding them take no notice to the lady of what I had read, I shot over the way, and asking for the mistress of the house, she came to me.
            Retiring with her, at her invitation, into her parlour, I desired to know, if she was acquainted with a young country clergyman of the name of Brand. She hesitatingly, seeing me in some emotion, owned, that she had some small knowlege of the gentleman. Just then came in her husband, who is, it seems, a petty officer in the excise, and not an ill-behaved man, who owned a fuller knowlege of him.
            I have the copy of a letter, said I, from this Brand, in which he has taken great liberties with my character, and with That of the most unblameable lady in the world, which he grounds upon informations that you, Madam, have given him. And then I read to them several passages in his letter; and asked, What foundation she had for giving that fellow such impressions of either of us?
            They knew not what to answer: But, at last, said, that he had told them how wickedly the young lady had run away from her parents: What worthy and rich people they were: In what favour <i>he</i> stood with them; and that they had imployed him to inquire after her behaviour, visiters, 
                 it was but too natural to think, that where a lady had given way to a delusion, and taken so wrong a step, she would not stop there: That the most sacred places and things were but too often made a cloak for bad actions. That Mr. Brand had been informed (perhaps by some enemy of mine) that I was a man of very free principles, and an <i>intimado,</i> as he calls it, of the man who had ruined her. And that their cousin Barker, a mantua-maker, who lodged up one pair of stairs, had often from her window, seen me with the lady in her chamber, talking very earnestly together: And that Mr. Brand being unable to account for her admitting my visits, and knowing I was but a new acquaintance of hers, and an old one of Mr. Lovelace's, thought himself obliged to lay these matters before her friends.
            This was the sum and substance of their tale. O how I cursed the censoriousness of this plaguy triumvirate! A parson, a milliner, and a mantua-maker! The two latter, not more by <i>business</i> led to adorn the person, than generally by <i>scandal</i> to destroy the <i>reputations</i> of those they have a mind to exercise their talents upon!
            The two women took great pains to persuade me, that they were people of conscience:ÑOf consequence, I told them, too much addicted, I doubted, to censure other people who pretended not to their strictness; for that I had ever found censoriousness, narrowness, and uncharitableness to prevail too much with those who affected to be thought more pious than their neighbours.
            That was not them, they said; and that they had since inquired into the lady's character and manner of life, and were very much concerned to think any thing they had said should be made use of against her: And as they heard from Mrs. Smith, that she was not likely to live long, they should be sorry she should go out of the world a sufferer by their means, or with an ill opinion of them, tho' strangers to her. The husband offered to write, if I pleased to Mr. Brand, in vindication of the lady; and the two women said, they should be glad to wait upon her in person, to beg her pardon for any thing she had reason to
take amiss from them; because they were now convinced that there was not such another young lady in the world.
            I told them, That the least said of the affair to the lady in her present circumstances, was best. That she was fond of taking all occasions to find excuses for her relations on their implacableness to her; That therefore I should take some notice to her of the uncharitable and weak surmizes which gave birth to so vile a scandal. But that I would have him, Mr. Walton, (for that is the husband's name) write to his acquaintance Brand, as soon as possible, as he had offered.ÑAnd so I left them.