                        Saturday night.
                  MOST confoundedly alarm'd.—Lord, Sir, what do you think? cry'd Dorcas—My lady is resolv'd to go to church to-morrow! I was at quadrille with the women below.—To church! said I, and down I laid my cards. <i>To church!</i> repeated they, each looking upon the other. We had done playing for that night. Who could have dreamt of such a whim as this?—Without notice, without questions! Her cloaths not come! No leave asked!—Impossible she should think to be my wife!—Why, this lady don't consider, if she go to church, I must go too!—Yet not to ask for my company!—Her brother and Singleton ready to snap her up, as far as she knows!—Known by her cloaths! Her person, her features, so distinguished!—Not such another woman in England! To church of all places!—Is the devil in the girl, said I? as soon as I could speak.
                  Well, but to leave this subject till to-morrow morning, I will now give you the instructions I have drawn up for yours and your companions behaviour on Monday night.
                           Instructions to be observed by John Belford, Richard Mowbray, Thomas Belton, and James Tourville, Esquires of the body to General Robert Lovelace, on their admission to the presence of his goddess.
                                    Then follow his humorous instructions:—In which he cautions them to avoid all obscene hints, and even the double entendre.
                           You know, says he, that I never permitted any of you to talk obscenely. Time enough for that, when ye grow old, and can <i>only</i> talk. What! as I have often said, cannot you touch a woman's heart, without wounding her ear?
                           I need not bid you respect me mightily. Your allegiance
obliges you to that. And who, that sees me, respects me not?
                                    He gives them their cue as to Miss Partington, and her history and assumed character.
                           So noted, says he, for innocent looks, yet deep discretion!—And be sure to remember, that my beloved has no name but mine; and that the mother has no other than her maiden name, <i>Sinclair</i>; her husband a lieutenant-colonel.
                                    Many other whimsical particulars he gives; and then says,
                           This dear lady is prodigiously learned in <i>Theories:</i> But as to <i>Practies,</i> as to <i>Experimentals,</i> must be, as you know, from her tender years, a mere novice. Till she knew me, I dare say, she did not believe, whatever she had read, that there were such fellows in the world, as she'll see in you four. I shall have much pleasure in observing how she'll stare at her company, when she finds me the politest man of the five.
                           And so much for instructions general and particular for your behaviour on Monday night.
                  And now, methinks, thou art curious to know, what can be my view, in risking the displeasure of my fair one, and alarming her fears, after four or five halcyon days have gone over our heads?—I'll satisfy thee.
                  The visitors of the two nieces will croud the house. Beds will be scarce. Miss Partington, a sweet modest genteel girl, will be prodigiously taken with my charmer; will want to begin a friendship with her. A share in her bed for one night only, will be requested. Who knows, but on that very Monday night I may be so unhappy, as to give mortal offence to my beloved? The shyest birds may be caught napping. Should she attempt to fly me upon it, cannot I detain her? Should she actually fly, cannot I bring her back by authority, civil or uncivil, if I have evidence upon evidence, that she acknowleged,
tho' but tacitly, her marriage?—And should I, or should I not succeed, and she forgive me, or if she but descend to expostulate, or if she bear me in her sight; then will she be all my own. All delicacy is my charmer. I long to see how such a delicacy, on either occasion, will behave. And in my situation it behoves me to provide against every accident.
                  I must take care, knowing what an eel I have to do with, that the little wriggling rogue does not slip thro' my fingers. How silly should I look, staring after her, when she had shot from me into the muddy river, her family, from which, with so much difficulty, I have taken her!
                  Well then; here are—Let me see—How many persons are there who, after Monday night, will be able to swear, that she has gone by my name, answered to my name, had no other view in leaving her friends, but to go by my name? Her own relations not able nor willing to deny it.—First, here are my servants; her servant Dorcas, Mrs. Sinclair, her two nieces, and Miss Partington.
                  But for fear these evidences should be suspected, here comes the jet of the business.—No less than four worthy gentlemen, of fortune and family, who were all in company such a night particularly, at a collation to which they were invited by Robert Lovelace of Sandoun-Hall, in the county of Lancaster, Esquire, in company with Magdalen Sinclair widow, and Priscilla Partington spinster, and the Lady complainant; when the said Robert Lovelace addressed himself to the said lady, on a multitude of occasions, as <i>his</i> lady; as they and others did, as Mrs. Lovelace; every one complimenting and congratulating her upon her nuptials; and that she received such their compliments and congratulations with no other visible displeasure or repugnance, than such as a young bride, full of blushes and pretty confusion, might be supposed to express upon such contemplative revolvings as
those compliments would naturally inspire. Nor do thou rave at me, Jack, nor rebel.—Dost think I brought the dear creature here for nothing?
                  And there's a faint sketch of my plot.—Stand by, varlets—Tanta-ra-ra-ra!—Veil your bonnets, and confess your master!