                  Monday, April 3.
            I Am glad my papers are safe in your hands. I will make it my endeavour to deserve your good opinion, that I may not at once disgrace your judgment, and my own heart.
            I have another letter from Mr. Lovelace. He is extremely apprehensive of the meeting I am to have with Mr. Solmes to-morrow. He says,
"That the airs that wretch gives himself on the occasion, add to his concern; and it is with infinite difficulty that he prevails upon himself, not to make him a visit, to let him know what he may expect, if compulsion be used towards me in his favour. He assures me, That Solmes has actually talked with tradesmen of new equipages, and names the people in town, with whom he has treated: That he has even (Was there ever such a horrid wretch!) allotted This and That apartment in his house, for a nursery, and other offices."
            How shall I bear to hear such a creature talk of love to me? I shall be out of all patience with him!—Besides, I thought that he did not dare to make or talk of these impudent preparations—So inconsistent as such are with my brother's views—But I fly the shocking subject.
            Upon this confidence of Solmes, you will less wonder at That of Lovelace,
"in pressing me, in the name of all his family, to escape from so determined a violence, as is intended to be offer'd to me at my uncle's: That the forward contriver should propose his uncle's chariot-and-six to be at the stile that leads up to the lonely coppice, adjoining to our paddock. You will see how audaciously he mentions
settlements ready drawn; horsemen ready to mount; and one of his cousins Montague to be in the chariot, or at the George in the neighbouring village, waiting to accompany me to Lord M's, or to either of his aunts, or to town, as I please; and upon such orders, or conditions, and under such restrictions, as to himself, as I shall prescribe."
            You will see how he threatens
"To watch and way-lay them, and rescue me, as he calls it, by an armed force of friends and servants, if they attempt to carry me against my will to my uncle's; and this, whether I give my consent to the enterprise, or not:—Since he shall have no hopes if I am once there."
            O my dear friend! Who can think of these things, and not be extremely miserable in her apprehensions!
            This mischievous sex! What had I to do with any of them; or they with me!—I had deserv'd This, were it by my own seeking, by my own giddiness, that I had brought myself into this situation—I wish, with all my heart—But how foolishly we are apt to wish, when we find ourselves unhappy, and know not how to help ourselves.
            On your mamma's goodness, however, is my reliance. If I can but avoid being precipitated on either hand, till my cousin Morden arrives, a reconciliation must follow; and all will be happy!
            I have deposited a letter for Mr. Lovelace; in which
"I charge him to avoid any rash step, any visit to Mr. Solmes, which may be followed by acts of violence, as he would not disoblige me for ever."
            I re-assure him, "That I will sooner die than be 'that man's wife."
               "Whatever be my usage, whatever the result of this interview, I insist upon his not presuming to offer violence to any of my friends: And express myself highly displeased, that he should presume upon such an interest in my favour, as to think himself intitled to dispute my father's authority in my
removal to my uncle's; altho' I tell him, that I will omit neither prayers nor contrivance, even to the making of myself ill, to avoid going."
            To-morrow is Tuesday!—How soon comes upon us the day we dread!—O that a deep sleep of twenty-four hours would seize my faculties—But then the next day would be Tuesday, as to all the effects and purposes, for which I so much dread it. If this reach you before the event of this so much apprehended interview can be known, pray for
               Your CL. HARLOWE.
