                        Wednesday Night.
                  ALL is in a hurry below-stairs. Betty is in and out like a spy. Something is working, I know not what. I am really a good deal disorder'd in body as well as mind. Indeed I am quite heart-sick!
                  I will go down, tho' 'tis almost dark, on pretence of getting a little air and composure. Robert has my two former, I hope, before now: And I will deposite This, with Lovelace's inclosed, if I can, for fear of another search.
                  I know not what I shall do!—All is so strangely busy!—Doors clapt to: Going-out of one apartment, hurryingly, as I may say, into another. Betty in her alarming way, staring, as if of frighted importance;
twice with me in half an hour; called down in haste, by Shorey, the last time; leaving me with still more meaning in her looks and gestures!—Yet possibly nothing in all This, worthy of my apprehensions.—Here, again, comes the creature, with her deep-drawn affected sighs, and her <i>O dear's! O dear's!</i>
                  MORE dark hints thrown out by this saucy creature. But she will not explain herself.
"Suppose this pretty business ends in murder, she says. I may rue my opposition, as long as I live, for aught she knows. Parents will not be <i>baffled</i> out of their children by impudent gentlemen; nor is it fit they should. It may come home to me, when I least expect it."
                  These are the gloomy and perplexing hints this impertinent throws out. Probably they arise from the information Mr. Lovelace says he has secretly permitted them to have [From his vile double-faced agent, I suppose!] of his resolution to prevent my being carried to my uncle's.
                  How justly, if so, may This exasperate them!—How am I driven to and fro, like a feather in the wind, at the pleasure of the rash, the selfish, and the headstrong! and when I am as averse to the proceedings of the one, as I am to those of the other! But being forced into a clandestine correspondence, indiscreet measures are fallen upon by the rash man, before I can be consulted: And between them, I have not an option, altho' my ruin [For is not the loss of reputation a ruin?] may be the dreadful consequence of the steps taken. What a perverse fate is mine!
                  If I am prevented depositing this, and the inclosed, as I intend to try to do, late as it is, I will add to
it, as occasion shall offer. Mean time, believe me to be
                     Your ever affectionate and grateful CL. HARLOWE.
"My two former not taken away!—I am surprised!—I hope you are well—I hope All is right betwixt your mamma and you."