                        Sunday morning, March 5.
                  HANNAH has just brought me, from the private place in the garden-wall, a letter from Mr. Lovelace, deposited last night, signed also by Lord M.
                  He tells me in it,
"That Mr. Solmes makes it his boast, that he is to be marry'd in a few days to one of the shyest women in England: That my brother explains his meaning to be me; assuring every-one, that his youngest sister is very soon to be Mr. Solmes's wife. He tells me of the patterns bespoke, which my mamma mention'd to me."
                  Not one thing escapes him that is done or said in this house!
                     "My sister, he says, reports the same things; and that with such particular aggravations of insult upon <i>him,</i> that he cannot but be extremely piqued, as well at the manner, as from the occasion; and expresses himself with great violence upon it."
                     "He knows not what my relations inducements can be, to prefer such a man as Solmes to him. If advantageous settlements be the motive, Solmes shall not offer what he will refuse to comply with."
                     "As to his estate, or family; the first cannot be excepted against: And for the second, he will not disgrace himself by a comparison so odious. He appeals to Lord M. for the regularity of his life and manners, ever since he has made his addresses to me, or had hope of my favour."
                  I suppose, he would have his Lordship's signing to this letter to be taken as a voucher for him.
                     "He desires my leave, in company with my Lord, in a pacific manner, to attend my father or uncles, in order to make proposals that must be accepted, if they will but see him, and hear what they are:
And tells me, that he will submit to any measures that I shall prescribe, in order to bring about a reconciliation."
                  He presumes to be very earnest with me
"to give him a private meeting some night, in my father's garden, attended by whom I please."
                  Really, my dear, were you to see his letter, you would think I had given him great encouragement, and were in direct treaty with him; or that he were sure that my friends would drive me into a foreign protection; for he has the boldness to offer, in my Lord's name, an asylum to me, should I be tyrannically treated in Solmes's behalf.
                  I suppose it is the way of this sex to endeavour to intangle the thoughtless of ours by bold supposals and offers, in hopes that we shall be too complaisant or bashful to quarrel with them; and, if not check'd, to reckon upon our silence, as assents voluntarily given, or concessions made in their favour.
                  There are other particulars in this letter which I ought to mention to you: But I will take an opportunity to send you the letter itself, or a copy of it.
                  For my own part, I am very uneasy to think how I have been <i>drawn</i> on one hand, and <i>driven</i> on the other, into a clandestine, in short, into a mere Lover-like correspondence, which my heart condemns.
                  It is easy to see, that if I do not break it off, Mr. Lovelace's advantages, by reason of my unhappy situation, will every day increase, and I shall be more and more intangled: Yet if I do put an end to it, without making it a condition of being freed from Mr. Solmes's address—May I, my dear, is it best, to continue it a little longer, in hopes, by giving him up, to extricate myself out of the other difficulty?—Whose advice can I now ask but yours?
                  All my relations are met. They are at breakfast together. Solmes is expected. I am excessively uneasy. I must lay down my pen.
                       THEY are all going to church together. Grievously disorder'd they appear to be, as Hannah tells me. She believes something is resolved upon.
