                        Friday, One o'Clock.
                  I Have a letter from Mr. Lovelace, full of transports, vows, and promises. I will send it to you inclosed. You'll see how he engages in it for his aunt Lawrance's protection, and for Miss Charlotte Montague's accompanying me.
"I have nothing to do, but to persevere, he says, and prepare to receive the personal congratulations of his whole family."
                  But you'll see, how he presumes upon my being <i>his,</i> as the consequence of throwing myself into that Lady's protection.
                  The chariot-and-fix is to be ready at the place he mentions. You'll see, as to the slur upon my reputation, which I am so apprehensive about, how boldly he argues. Generously enough, indeed, were I to be <i>his</i>; and had given him reason to believe that I would!ÑBut that I have not done.
                  How one step brings on another with this incroaching
Sex! How soon may a young creature, who gives a man the least encouragement, be carried beyond her intentions, and out of her own power!ÑYou would imagine, by what he writes, that I have given him reason to think, that my aversion to Mr. Solmes is all owing to my favour for him!
                  The dreadful thing is, that, comparing what he writes from his intelligencer, of what is designed against me [though he seems not to know the threatened day] with what my aunt and Betty assure me of, there can be no hope for me, but that I must be Solmes's wife, if I stay here.
                  I had better have gone to my uncle Antony's, at this rate! I should have gained time, at least, by it. This is the fruit of his fine contrivances!
                     "What we are to do, and how good he is to be: How I am to direct all his future steps."
All this shews, as I said before, that he is sure of me.
                  However, I have reply'd to the following effect:
"That although I had given him room to expect, that I would put myself into his aunt's protection; yet, as I have three days to come, between this and Monday, and as I hope that my friends will still relent, or that Mr. Solmes will give up a point they will both find it impossible to carry; I shall not look upon myself as absolutely bound by the appointment: And expect therefore, if I recede, that I shall not be called to account for it by him. That I think it necessary to acquaint him, that if, by putting myself into Lady Betty Lawrance's protection, he understands, that I mean directly to throw myself into <i>his</i> power, he is very much mistaken: For that there are many points in which I must be satisfied; several matters to be adjusted, even, after I have left this house (if I do leave it), before I can think of giving him any particular encouragement: That, in the first place, he must expect, that I will do my utmost to procure my father's reconciliation and
approbation of my future steps; and that I will govern myself intirely by his commands, in every (reasonable point, as much as if I had not left his house: That if he imagines, that I shall not reserve to myself this liberty, but that my withdrawing is to give him any advantages, which he would otherwise have had; I am determined to tarry where I am, and abide the event, in hopes that my friends will still accept of my reiterated promise, never to marry him, or any-body else, without their consent."
                  This I will deposite as soon as I can. And as he thinks things are near their crisis, I dare say it will not be long before I have an answer to it.
