<i>Thursday,</i> 11 <i>o'Clock, Aug.</i> 31.
                  I AM just come from the lady, whom I left chearful and serene.
                  She thanked me for my communication of the preceding night. I read to her such parts of your letters as I <i>could</i> read to her; and I thought it was a good test to distinguish the froth and whipt-syllabub in them from the cream, in what one <i>could</i> and could <i>not</i> read to a woman of so fine a mind; since four parts out of six of thy letters, which I thought entertaining as I read them to myself, appeared to me, when I would have read them to her, most abominable stuff, and gave me a very contemptible idea of thy talents, and of my own judgment.
                  She was far from rejoicing, as I had done, at the disappointment her letter gave you when explained.
                  She said, she meant only an innocent allegory, that might carry instruction and warning to you, when the meaning was taken, as well as answer her own hopes for the time. It was run off in a hurry. She was afraid, it was not quite ight in <i>her.</i> But hoped the end would excuse, if it could not justify, the means. And then she again expressed a good deal of apprehension, lest you should still take it into your head to molest her, when her time, she says, is so hort, that she wants every moment of it; repeating what he had once said before, That when she wrote, she was o ill, that she believed, she should not have lived till now:
If she had thought she should, she must have thought of an expedient that would have better answered her intentions; hinting at a removal out of the knowlege of us both.
                  But she was much pleased that the conference between you and Colonel Morden ended so amicably, after two or three such violent sallies, as I acquainted her you had had between you; and said, she must absolutely depend upon the promise I had given her to use my utmost endeavours to prevent further mischief on her account.
                  She was pleased with the justice you did her character to her cousin.
                  She was glad to hear, that he had so kind an opinion of her, and that he would write to her.
                  I was under an unnecessary concern, how to break to her, that I had the copy of Brand's vile letter: <i>Unnecessary,</i> I say; for she took it just as you thought she would, as an excuse she wished to have for the implacableness of her friends; and begg'd I would let her read it herself; for, said she, the contents cannot disturb me, be they what they will.
                  I gave it her, and she read it to herself, a tear now-and-then ready to start, and a sigh sometimes interposing.
                  She gave me back the letter with great and surprising calmness, considering the subject.
                  There was a time, said she, and that not long since, when such a letter as this would have greatly pained me. But I hope, I have now got above all these things; for I can refer to your kind offices, and Miss Howe's, the justice that will be done to my memory among my friends. There is a good and a bad light in which every thing that befals us, may be taken. If the human mind will busy itself to make the worst of every disagreeable occurrence, it will never want woe. This letter, affecting as the subject of it is to my reputation, gives me more pleasure than pain, because I can gather from it, that had not my friends been prepossessed by misinformed, or rash and officious persons, who are always at hand to flatter or sooth the passions of the affluent, they could not have been so immoveably determined against me. But now, they are sufficiently cleared from every imputation of unforgiveness; for, while I appeared to them in the character of a vile hypocrite, pretending
to true penitence, yet giving up myself to profligate courses, how could I expect either their pardon or blessing?
                  But, Madam, said I, you'll see by the date of this letter, August 9, that their severity, <i>previous</i> to that, cannot be excused by it.
                  It imports me much, replied she, on account of my present wishes, as to the office you are so kind to undertake, that you should not think harshly of my friends. I must own to you, that I have been apt sometimes myself to think them not only severe, but cruel. Suffering minds will be partial to their own cause and merits. Knowing their own hearts, if sincere, they are apt to murmur when harshly treated: But if they are not <i>believed</i> to be innocent by persons, who have a right to decide upon their conduct according to their own judgments, how can it be helped? Besides, Sir, How do you know, that there are not about my friends as well-meaning misrepresenters as Mr. Brand really seems to be? But be this as it will, there is no doubt that there are and have been multitudes of persons, as innocent as myself, who have suffered upon surmises as little probable as those on which Mr. Brand founds his judgment. Your intimacy, Sir, with Mr. Lovelace, and (may I say?) a character which, it seems, you have been less sollicitous formerly about justifying, than perhaps you will be for the future; and your frequent visits to me, may well be thought to be questionable circumstances in my conduct.
                  I could only admire her in silence.
                  But you see, Sir, proceeded she, how necessary it is for young people of our sex, to be careful of our company: And how much, at the same time, it behoves young gentlemen to be chary of their own reputation, were it only for the sake of such of ours, as they may mean honourably by; and who otherwise may suffer in their good names for being seen in their company.
                  As to Mr. Brand, continued she, he is to be pitied; and let me injoin you, Mr. Belford, not to take up any resentments against him which may be detrimental either to his person or his fortunes. Let his function and his good meaning plead for him. He will have concern enough,
when he finds every body whose displeasure I now labour under, acquitting my memory of perverse guilt, and joining in a general pity for me.
                  This, Lovelace, is the lady whose life thou hast curtailed in the blossom of it!ÑHow many opportunities must thou have had of admiring her inestimable worth, yet couldst have thy senses so much absorbed in the WOMAN in her charming person, as to be blind to the ANGEL that shines out in such full glory in her mind? Indeed, I have ever thought myself, when blest with her conversation, in the company of a real angel: And I am sure it would be impossible for me, were she to be as beautiful, and as crimsoned over with health as I have seen her, to have the least thought of Sex, when I heard her talk.
