                        Friday, Six o'Clock.
                  MY aunt, who again stays all night, has just left me. She came to tell me the result of my friends deliberations about me. It is this.
                  Next Wednesday morning they are all to be assembled: To wit, my father, mother, my uncles, herself, and my uncle Hervey; my brother and sister of course; my good Mrs. Norton is likewise to be admitted: And Dr. Lewin is to be at hand, to exhort me, it seems, if there be occasion: But my aunt is not certain, whether he is to be among them, or to tarry till called in.
                  When this awful court is set, the poor prisoner is to be brought in, supported by Mrs. Norton; who is to be first tutored to instruct me in the duty of a child; which, it seems, I have quite forgotten.
                  Nor is the success at all doubted, my aunt says: For it is not believed I can be so harden'd, as to withstand so venerable a judicature, altho' I have withstood several of them separately. And still the less, as she hints at extraordinary condescensions from my papa. But what condescensions, from even my father, can induce me to make such a sacrifice as is expected from me?
                  Yet my spirits will never bear up, I doubt, at such a tribunal: My father presiding in it.
                  I believed indeed, that my trials would not be at an end, till he had admitted me once more into his awful presence!
                  What is hoped from me, she says, is, That I
will chearfully, on Tuesday night, if not before, sign the articles; and so turn the succeeding day's solemn convention of all my friends, into a day of festivity, I am to have the licence sent me up, however, and once more the settlements, that I may see how much in earnest they are.
                  She further hinted, that my papa himself would bring up the settlements for me to sign.
                  O my dear! what a trial will This be!ÑHow shall I be able to refuse to my father [My father! from whose presence I have been so long banish'd; he commanding and intreating, perhaps, in a breath! How shall I be able to refuse to my father] the writing of my name?
                  They are sure, she says, something is working on Mr. Lovelace's part, and perhaps on mine: And my papa would sooner follow me to the grave, than see me <i>his</i> wife.
                  I said, I was not well; That the very apprehensions of these trials, were already insupportable to me; and would increase upon me, as the time approached; and I was afraid I should be extremely ill.
                  They had prepared themselves for such an <i>artifice</i> as That, was my aunt's unkind word; and she could assure me, it would stand me in no stead.
                     <i>Artifice!</i> repeated I: And this from my aunt Hervey?
                  Why my dear, said she, do you think people are fools?ÑCan they not see, how dismally you endeavour to sigh yourself down within-doors?ÑHow you hang down your <i>sweet face</i> [those were the words she was pleased to use] upon your bosom:ÑHow you totter, as it were, and hold by this chair, and by that door-post, when you know that Any-body sees you [This, my dear Miss Howe, is an aspersion to fasten hypocrisy and contempt upon me: My brother's or sister's aspersion!ÑI am not capable of arts
so low]. But the moment you are down with your poultry, or advancing upon your garden-walk, and, as you imagine, out of every-body's sight, it is seen how nimbly you trip along; and what an alertness governs all your motions.
                  I should hate myself, said I, were I capable of such poor <i>artifices</i> as these. I must be a fool to use them, as well as a mean creature; for have I not had experience enough, that my friends are incapable of being moved in much more <i>affecting instances?</i>ÑBut you'll see how I shall be by Tuesday.
                  My dear, you will not offer any violence to your health?ÑI hope, God has given you more grace, than to do that.
                  I hope he has, Madam. But there is violence enough offer'd, and threatened, to affect my health; and that will be found, without my needing to have recourse to any other, or to <i>artifice</i> either.
                  I'll only tell you one thing, my dear: And that is; Ill or well, the ceremony will probably be performed before Wednesday-night:ÑBut This, also, I will tell you, altho' beyond my present commission, that Mr. Solmes will be under an engagement, (if you should require it of him, as a favour) after the ceremony is passed, and Lovelace's hopes thereby utterly extinguished, to leave you at your father's, and return to his own house every evening, until you are brought to a full sense of your duty, and consent to acknowlege your change of name.
                  There was no opening of my lips to such a speech as This. I was dumb.
                  And these, my dear Miss Howe, are They, who <i>some</i> of them, at least, have called me a romantic girl!ÑThis is my chimerical brother, and wis sister; both joining their heads together, I dare say? And yet, my aunt told me, that the last part wa what took in my mamma; who had, till that wa started, insisted, that her child should not be married
if, thro' grief or opposition, she should be ill, or fall into fits.
                  This intended violence my aunt often excused, by the certain information they pretended to have, of some plots or machinations, that were ready to break out, from Mr. Lovelace: The effects of which were thus cunningly to be frustrated.
