<i>Monday Night, Aug.</i> 28.
                  I Doubt you will be all impatience, that you have not heard from me since mine of Thursday last. You would be still more so, if you knew that I had by me a letter ready-written.
                       I went early yesterday morning to Epsom; and found every thing disposed according to the directions I had left on Friday; and at night the solemn office was performed. Tourville was there; and behaved very decently, and with greater concern than I thought he would ever have expressed for any body.
                  Thomasine, they told me, in a kind of disguise, was in an obscure pew, out of curiosity (for it seems she was far from shewing any tokens of grief) to see the last office performed for the man whose heart she had so largely contributed to break.
                  I was obliged to stay till this afternoon, to settle several necessary matters, and to direct inventories to be taken, in order for appraisement; for every thing is to be turned into money, by his will. I presented his sister with the 100 guineas the poor man left me as his executor, and desired her to continue in the house, and take the direction of every thing, till I could hear from his nephew at Antigua, who is <i>heir at law.</i> He had left her but 50 <i>l.</i> altho' he knew her indigence; and that it was owing to a vile husband, and not to herself, that she <i>was</i> indigent.
                  The poor man left about 200<i>l.</i> in money, and 200 <i>l.</i> in two East-India bonds; and I will contrive, if I can, to make up the poor woman's 50<i>l.</i> and my 100 guineas, 200<i>l.</i> to her; and then she will have some little matter coming in certain, which I will oblige her to keep out of the hands of a son, who has compleated that ruin which his father had very near effected.
                  I gave Tourville his 20<i>l.</i> and will send you and Mowbray yours by the first order. And so much for poor Belton's affairs till I see you.
                  I got to town in the evening, and went directly to Smith's. I found Mrs. Lovick and Mrs. Smith in the back-shop, and I saw they had been both in tears. They rejoiced to see me, however, and told me, that the doctor and Mr. Goddard were but just gone; as was also the worthy clergyman, who often comes to pray by her; and all three were of opinion, that she would hardly live to see the entrance of another week. I was not so much surprised as grieved; for I had feared as much when I left her on Saturday.
                       I sent up my compliments; and she returned, that she would take it for a favour if I would call upon her in the morning, by eight o'clock. Mrs. Lovick told me, That she had fainted away on Saturday, while she was writing, as she had done likewise the day before; and having received benefit then by a little turn in a chair, she was carried abroad again. She returned somewhat better; and wrote till late; yet had a pretty good night; and went to Covent-garden church in the morning: But came home so ill, that she was obliged to lie down.
                  When she arose, seeing how much grieved Mrs. Lovick and Mrs. Smith were for her, she made apologies for the trouble she gave them—You were happy, said she, before I came hither. It was a cruel thing in me to come among honest strangers, and to be sick, and die with you.
                  When they touched upon the irreconcileableness of her friends, she said, She had ill offices done her to them, and they did not know how ill she was, nor would they believe any thing she should write. But yet she could not but sometimes think it a little hard, that she should have so many near and dear friends living, and not one to look upon her—No old servant, no old friend, she said, to be permitted to come near her, without being sure of incurring displeasure; and to have such a great work to go thro' by herself, a young creature as she was, and to have every thing to think of as to her temporal matters, and to order, to her very interrment! No dear mother, said she, to pray by me and bless me!—No kind sister to sooth and comfort me!—But come, said she, how do I know but all is for the best—If I can but make a right use of the dispensation?—Pray for me, Mrs. Lovick—Pray for me, Mrs. Smith, that I may—I have great need of your prayers.—This cruel man has discomposed me. His persecutions have given me a pain just here—putting her hand to her heart. What a step has he made me take to avoid him!—Who can <i>touch pitch, and not be defiled?</i> He has made a bad spirit take possession of me, I think—Broken in upon all my duties. And will not yet, I doubt, let me be at rest. Indeed he is very cruel.—But, this is one of my trials, I believe. By God's grace I shall be easier to-morrow, and especially if I have no more of his tormentings, and if I can can get a tolerable night. And I will sit up till eleven, that I may.
                       She said, That tho' this was so heavy a day with her, she was at other times, within these few days past especially, blessed with bright hours; and particularly, that she had now-and-then such joyful assurances (which she hoped were not presumptuous ones) that God would receive her to his mercy, that she could hardly contain herself, and was ready to think herself above this earth while she was in it: And what, inferred she to Mrs. Lovick, must be the state itself, the very aspirations after which, have often cast a beamy light thro' the thickest darkness, and when I have been at the lowest ebb, have dispelled the black clouds of despondency?—As I hope they soon will this spirit of repining.
                  She had a pretty good night, it seems, and this morning went in a chair to St. Dunstan's church.
                  The chairmen told Mrs. Smith, that after prayers (for she did not return till between nine and ten) they carried her to a house in Fleet-street, where they never waited on her before. And where dost think this was?—Why, to an Undertaker's! Good God! what a woman is this! She went into the back-shop, and talked with the master of it about half an hour, and came from him with great serenity; he waiting upon her to her chair with a respectful countenance, but full of curiosity and seriousness.
                  'Tis evident, that she then went to bespeak her <i>house</i> that she talked of.—<i>As soon as you can, Sir,</i> were her words to him as she got into the chair. Mrs. Smith told me this with the same surprize, and grief, that I heard it.
                  She was so ill in the afternoon, having got cold either at St. Dunstan's or at chapel, that she sent for the clergyman to pray by her; and the women, unknown to her, sent both for Dr. H. and Mr. Goddard: Who were just gone, as I told you, when I came to pay my respects to her this evening.
                  And thus I have recounted from the good women what passed to this night since my absence.
                  I long for to-morrow, that I may see her: And yet 'tis such a melancholy longing, as I never experienced, and know not how to describe.