                  To WILLIAM MORDEN, 
                     Esq
                           <i>Saturday, Sept.</i> 9.
                     Dear Cousin,
                  I Cannot find words to express what we all suffer on the mournfullest news that ever was communicated to us.
                  My Sister Arabella (but, alas! I have now no <i>other</i> Sister) was preparing to follow Mrs. Norton up; and I had resolved to escorte her, and to have looked in upon the dear creature.
                      s did he not send sooner?—or why at all?
                  The most admirable young creature that ever swerved!—not one friend to be with her!—Alas! Sir, I fear my mother will never get over this shock—She has been in hourly sits ever since she received the fatal news. My poor father has the got thrown into his stomach; and heaven knows—O Coin, O Sir!—I meant nothing but the honour of the family; yet have I all the weight thrown upon me—[O this cursed Lovelace! may I perish if he escape the deserved vengeance!]
                  We had begun to please ourselves that we should soon see her here—Good heaven! that her next entrance into this house, after she abandoned us so precipitately, should be in a coffin!
                  We can have nothing to do with her Executor (another strange step of the dear creature's!) He cannot expect we will—nor, if he be a gentleman, will he think of acting. Do You therefore be pleased, Sir, to order an undertaker to convey the body down to us.
                  My mother says she shall be for ever unhappy, if she may not in death see the dear creature whom she could not see in life: Be so kind therefore as to direct the lid to be only half-screwed down—that (if my poor mother cannot be prevailed upon to dispense with so shocking a spectacle) she may be obliged—She was the darling of her heart!
                  If we know her will in relation to the funeral, it shall be punctually complied with: As shall every thing in it that is fit or reasonable to be performed; and This without the intervention of strangers.
                  Will you not, dear Sir, favour us with your presence at this melancholy time? Pray do;—and pity and excuse what passed at our last meeting with that generosity which is natural to the Brave and the Wise. Every one's respects attend you. And I am, Sir,
                     
                        <i>Your inexpressibly afflicted Cousin and Servant,</i> JA. HARLOWE, jun.
              